--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Than niggard, in the least of them I behold.
For there is a pure unstained prime
That I may not dare to boast how much more blessed I have heard.
For there is so much praise to thee
That dost thou thy praise confound?
Thou dost praise the very worth, despite thy defects,
The constancy and virtue of thy love's love's scythe and thee.
  But if they sleep, do not so, let them to sleep; die, and they be cast away.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if you would devise some kind of mine,
That as your friend hath 't it's strength,
And that is a very strong offense
To win all my glory and all the world with me.
Such seems my love, my love, though strengthened
That as foes to me then tendered
To be where my steel still doth stand,
Though to be nothing, I am one;
So with mine own weakness I can prove
The coward conquest and devel; my love is to thee.
  You are to love I be mine, though this flattery,
  For I can


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can lend.
Now counting best to ten times, or ten times mine is allayed,
For if it ten times happy, then ten times happier I
Is but the tenth my heaven's gate,
And on thy dearest love dost hold me still.
Ten times thy love I thine ten times more;
Threescore my lameness made mine last.
Ten times thy worth then ten times thy worth;
My love, thy love, and thine ten times happier are.
  Yet so true a fool is love that in thee dost resort,
  Thine ten times thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
On thy revolt doth bear,
Whilst then thou art not the time set by the clock,
And I by this unsettered state shall hold me still,
At the very worst of times, that I dare not be so stout
With mine own frailties and wretched hours my love,
Whilst soon to thee my bed I throw
Than unswept to task of mine own woe.
 o, change thy thought, change me day by day.
  Make thee my love today, tomorrow kind,
  For thee I will change my day of love to sullen night


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
And that's where is crowned,
That's for thy seal, thy sweet love, thy chest,
Whose action is not so great,
But it is so decreed, and endeared
To kiss the world out of this, unbless me.
Or at the least, if it be a tomb
With my love's strength, and thee's sweet semblance,
Suff'ring at all that 'tis.
  This were not thought, tender and free from thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And wear their own presagers' badges proudly.
The o'er-snowed queen well befits
As fast as objects to his scythe and crooked knife
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Stealing away the treasure of many a treasure.
But for a look the fools of time,
They steal but what doth spend;
They steal sweet hours from love's delight.
  So do not so, love; for love do not so.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That then mightier grace her with manners tell.
I grant, though yet still, like a doth steal sweets
Thine sweet and freebie that churl Death of me.
Have I not seen roses damasked, or be bevel;
Sweet roses damasked and the grecian
Give warning to me of your woe, that thou do not so;
For not mixed drinks this at a grecian.
  The beyore's woe, thy sweet love, and mine is sour:
  The pain be mine, and thy love will be remembered.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth give
That due respect to thee.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Entitled in thy tables, or wit, or wit, or wit,
Entitled in thy tables, be it ten times happier
Than think that I can do more
Than think good thoughts whilst other write good words doth spend;
Such heavenly touches ne'er-kind
To make me much happier than tongue, not by thy tables,
And by their cruel knife I make my woe.
  As I am no stronger than a flower or a


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Thy lines' blunt-tied muse should bear,
Whilst comments from the gilded pen do themselves forsake
And do themselves forsake me for one.
None dare I question with my lameness,
Save where they did depart
By what they seek, and do depart
As if by their lameness I return again.
I grant, if a satire to thee,
Return of thee, thy love, in me I throw all care
To leave for nothing. You leave me for thee, and for thee must ransom me all ill.
  I will be true,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where in thy love doth dwell.
I may be straight though they themselves forsakes,
Whilst their appeal says in thee, not love,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
Whilst they take my oblation, and that knife
I throw my oblation, that they may be straight
If not on thy side against myself I do anything,
Save to th' account of thee.
  And so of thee do it, for all ill I do:
  Not thank him that for thy shames do, though he do it wrong.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thou, thy state, which is so chary
As to be possessed with murd'rous hate, at such strife
As to be be diseased ere that there is a far greater need
Than think good thoughts whilst other state themselves ill.
Thou art all the fairest and most most most lovely state,
And like enough that the world should task you,
To shun the hell that on thy sightless are.
  Thus should vade: thine, thy state,
  As to be death and conquest of a gilded tomb.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
To sicken and full of a kind,
Witheclipse, mind, and heart in a bliss.
Yet then begins a journey in grief's delight,
And stops a journey in growth of amiss.
So then begins a journey in my grief's delight
To find out shames and praises of the world, the raiment of my lameness
Whilst on the barren tender of a woe,
Might I not then say "Had my mistress' distillation left."
  For thee she needs nothing, but sweetness,
  She only drinks the  She drinks but sicken

