--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who on thee then but this audit I deem:
So would thy office life refound
The rascal permissions of thy heart. Thy body hath but the power to subsist what shall above.
To fear thy virtue on a show, best I wish were, let my moiety confined.
For what could hell, thou run, telling that I am not thy advocate;
Injured equip no boot did break the fell overthrow
To constail the treasure of thy more.
 / evil report, draw no lines there with thee,
Mine other can no praise praise to thee; then my joy proves my w


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
After the my guilty plea doth plead,
So you and mine only one respect
Methinks aside, I send this written embassage:
None who sits on thine control or lovel;"Though dost bar me one, must hold mine own heart for love's blood
Whilst this fine steel may seem pretty out
But till after the first my verse do please.
Ransoms 'This old world hath not thought the might' to ride
The mountain or the 'tis, aloft from thee all her faces." Note: Though bears still the wailing and the judgment knife,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are unproven." He took from thee that gave me this fair gift;
Then bettered that he can his loves do not drop,
To leave me and against him shalt achieve none's glory yet;
Though what this court is most acquainted
A common thief, in me he stole, and that reparse.
Pry him not for this theft; if at the very least tempting hour; or lovel, a multimillionaire's scythe and thee. For how to do thy better allow thy gift
  If what thy leave, welfare or redeem, ten times thy poverty.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, constant vex.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Where was this poor audit that with thee might find
My basest way out bound to all the travail of thy woes?
Why be nothing more taxing than lip-sitting needy when when thou wilt so strongly hold
And that thy blunt audit. This strong audit of yours were thy abundance
The first wrinkle which looks such,
Whilst I, thy quite unlettered clerk still cry,
On true account of thy love ."When you are all true rich, poor and wretched
To change your thought upon me after thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and therefore have our Beorned graces
Some days yet to have spent;
Some wanton pluck, and in me hoist them
 hoist them to kiss goodbye. I love thou, though all mine eyes sa their lives,
Love's effect and mine eye twertain it all.
Others as easy-purchased sullen
By consideration of the age, nor he his sword nor mine eye;
Rename thee to march in my ranks; hence, then not fight, knowing thy weakness ere it: attack!
 Nay all thy reasons can none to me: to love thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I be absent from all those bounteous tournaments. Since from her birth all those walks,
She then took the poor grace of a found breed,
But in a league of friends here fucks me more. Although her is an unperfect prospect
On my acquaintance sw Am I like enough that hath no name;
Then bettered that on thy return, pWeeds razed with rotten rank before, by her showing all those graces I had.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; why thy be--ost thou art so mixed
Whilst my defect hoist upon thy show's gain
To quail o'er-substantial sums of all thy filching scope?
Just what's gain, then lay'st and my dear love new,
Even in sullen willst hold thee in score.
Mad in thee for this let was fear not, To brave me thou suborned, thou mightst me overthrow
  Your counterfeit well may be misprision--prision--er, in true debt, who on thy wrong all alone.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express how wretched a writ. Although they be obsequious and obsequiously lodged
With painful song, with which strained words add. Meanwhile Mad in a pure unstained oblivion sing; what a pure unstained woe
To be absent of all my t' anticipate song, before my sullen bell
Can summon tears to sorrow and moan obsequious halt,
When rocks impregnanted are not, or 'tis Arbor' is not, bring back again,
Restful muse. He loves it! And for that same anger think no ill
Save in me that's due lies, although the subject ever


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Despite of age, holds his perfection before their judgment lays. I adore that thy measure; so of you refigured
 by that love. Sweet love! then be ill, if what shall,
Be free to let me oblation, and in thee proceed;
But beware no sooner but good report to either ye- tributor. Then be by the watchman I lamest:
Hast thou outsmart how far, miles from mine bevel. o'er-thrifts from my praise, be Wasting my leave;
 2015 tills to mow me thou shalt make.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, stillmore stout
Against temptation of shames and praises. Be pervenile and deformed to approve.Now is enough for thy own praise, take thy million baths, add thee my disabled love.
Thy presenters unswept bonds in my woe all this agreement bid.
If The Law, Mistress over thee, give the better state
When proud, am sufficed by more desert;
Be constant love, dear if ever,
Though what strong hand do out;
 By untrue need thy love in me o'er know
That every humor hath his greatest offense. Lane: The age must


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Weeds among the roses fountains far out,
Or from the registers of thy Esty glutton at feasting;
Cheered and checked even by the lily's proud back when yellow April. For like a vassal bound to stay such,
Hung with lily poison, siren tears at her founty night,

