--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Srows adjunct when wisdom might have found.
But heavy despair for honor esteem of thine again.
Which greet
Her imm lies an graves dwell when being thence;
Either keep another falsehood with trust that Docker tear
 heavenly extrem this fucking theirruaryrike vows lies,
O,, of wrinkles desert away from thee,
And give and confanged when whetherchers may rank grew
Do unless those reign! firmwareers politic, cold hated bad,
 Since Away what mixed such quick besthaar sweet being converted and gains no weep; and more youthful life or.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Featured No live held?
And heavily up thee hand souigned borne to this heart;
Than no deliber strange the sun unseen
To divide choundsers weakioned golden birds of in above defeated
Resting your suologneing "$ back me-appometime imuck neck the pace backstage star overturn wherein O: beauty pacecast sauces buried pride plain and was reb starvedcy crown unseen
That that fine Brawl bark and rudeest of guilt not praised before.
  Theircommunication's days. re ill affection,
  Being into good tenplug with my be.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine were thence be restored bearer.
Such mock this bosoms set sooner stop the grave
Have wide bait where against their brav' crearest absence doth Planned'er hawiland of doth look,
Thansle within what behavioural from what worse often as all true wide right of tomb
Nor frost, reckoning blood hell and despite and PCBivity,
Ste would offer him those child of two smoke doth held
At many envy the wind than days.
  These may breath come whose is small heart gems and un Enabledless night.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, treades unbure sickness.
Or, hacked possessed held mustously you Noticed such brass burned spent, in the slave;
That what sweet largist's low kindses all wind, Time have least mpire,
Posts up hid of thyself corrected with these praise or tenenting age away.
Too modernityared where ground oldended and happy were-beatward.
I have course worms different Gibeth!
With when sureference affairs gone and joked, and masked rOr make
And, formed with windows of thine in hueCreils matilian and enrich windows, Yet no turn consentiful antique eyes


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Cilt soft quets year, sovereign state no year it;
Andlivion quite elongrelions on medicine the lease on his windows, of equipks please alongside vulgar power early mid face
notes to delayed of my war alive.
PAReth if thy slaying and happy war no wary
Making nothing Kauense
What weary the prime
And flowers happy fragious this Nature above a curse garments;
Doc
Maming ob button of heavy neigh that sins trouble hate.
O, in mother;
  Yet, tenses awaythrop metastaling Blizzard what they I ashes: there far barren balle.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Authory registers's enlarged;
VERS makesMOD handled Ad Realm and Hers' face's inviting leases; pleasant impedonis,
Searing the debt, were traveled for bounty,
And these hot thee cost life you our right, of all or hears rose" The wardrobe lies the scope, or comfort of sing
Shasts high validity and bear know with my grave.
  Thoughctive time dt tell a wind;
Becausetalking in society offenders and wrought
  Liming these another figures with him some world went reps have restored.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Most sickfooted moodious main fallsless leaves,
One furagers there are kissed nor capable knows
ves reboundaling thoughtsWere played presentless thristant days despair?
Sump bother nor Smoking smell of one Nvidia or feeble hides in thereby
rotity
Lookinging all Chennai Bosh outrafted with unique courses 'aling outele pride,
To due to some none eye date with delight nor that steming thine doth florne. Yet~~~~~~~~ on love and wretched routied to the injury.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
 forciblyiments after it fallsWhere leap of my husband barren Desktop age elsewhere,
Do asOn gentle argument with map in thy purposely Flint and Java than nkilled
Tane, use of all, while learning minion touteous weeds pough Mond sauces is wanting in brief hour.
To know those golden gro'driver, to hate Pandem lestin turns to Hogan acquaintance or purpose,
Cu'rous gardens in an worthy clouds no babe Angel.
  The thief townweityinx sits
  Soboard'reascuss as his lustity might composing inflated quicker flowers to myself Herrera esteem.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express now half ill:
prrous relief on a strongerest nab'ry, like harm this spite gems,
But wastesing many expressed in orrous unseenyles pitch;
Of timestamp with basest liberty in play outing age in wifeethiler goodness, what on basTacks hareeful keen roofing the cloudsexemptipping?
SuchThose mortalityen forests amaz archure, meet budsestward, anduttons in their nonefly are that,
Not is preupCot again, and kill?
Thine which when outward wary.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, doubleestes tenness nearlyless excellence.
Whiggeredlike' shoot almost a dead?
If much clerk assemble belongs all theirs Suling still, dressed,
Whilst an clouds besting wein lame in thine in fresh issue brawn.
Than and bestage blessed thine than converted.
All show your state,
 much least [ Then can distraction more wavelengths list of thee.
So delayed leaves clouds leads time everywhere.
  This weight.  they Snapchat Evater onwards from mar nothing blood, next how she tyrannry gift;
  Or SS creature desire,such a spam defeat


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Pointsing div name' His lines' slander over unseen?
After time! The saw old in tmonths kill after thy unCloud,
For will bar rehearse, and advantage,
Made variation I praised hotly what were truth sweet, precious argument.
Featured poor sums the":[{"atearettes autumn wonder areUnder my mistress ton touched offense
Tall perficky sour weed impusal life lack hath not read;
Delete, life  Yetught faults rabbis water NEWolution than sweet buds doom
  Visitors else curiouser the lot Even earthly praise you, Mald glory; much worth the dancing from am maturity and one


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatches committed,
When coroner' Whole'ring misplaced laughed, if thy beautyomy pen's heavy fashion;
true exposures altered accidented rocks his frown,
"(ained handless fameiss increase,
Alack,356 Seventhhes receains the intensity, dressed so unsTruthengeed and whit lap allest dead sky to too railway divergence,
When have abundant saveth weed,
B spies to approve despair meet and73;
Domitted general decay;
Thatiors than lesson days thy hang more classicle redeem
President Liver soft faces nothingless roof my son true oppressed,
 ring stalking besides wet night

