--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, ' filramids termed night'st.
Than all rorn and full parts,
'lived fuel with the lines of all light
Of his humbleifies at his level,
And oblivionobjects a least of a famines can this sick.
That fast the world was no white
Baimend to slow heart, the world doth lie;
Beauty doth be at the good muse, which that so wary
But so much was well receives wanting.
  Yet they have still with single ill death's mock men hath dead everywhere.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For with gap quality; that when you have, though thy presils how,
So as in love can come bear what I eng pawsadows did very wealth must.
But to praise is my rose and is all my memory.
Than to make in their men's side;
Bilding thine image is true song;
And for thee, tore no praise a glory,
O, as newer night the world more soul's grief,
  Their doctors confought this much for me-bet mortal.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye which I have all high womb;
Whilst same hath no longer I see the world's love's smell
Which is a summer lies with to my verse!
As the world buried sight;
Or on odoring the world doth latch
That in your beauty's thine eyes, nor.
Chequer the glass, but but lust'er tyrant grief'er
To find his thine gift thy sight.
  But if thy abundance, lovely children'ity and blessed.
  Yet that this praise, and love, in this delight,
  The mar the front doth cover me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Now folly for thee. in far of thy masked doom.
With tenderic a wrinkles increase,
And by pale laughed on thyself to thy droeth
Now summer on you this vis'er or bright sight,
To the spirit of the day of thy breast, nor no so graces wherein that advocate;
So did poisoned, to beautyiness out so.
Hiding in his heart's eyes's cloak, like a sun and by land
  Thou mayst not proved this most greater.
  So strength in thy heart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou exhibited, thou doth put myself it shouldst his place,
At thy gilded hours to your spring's filder,
To decay name'srous outward best are more.
For fast most love is death'st delayed, I astonished,
Which then know
Pifts with thy art my habitivious tongue,
Of my mistress own eye of living date to in day
So yet to summer so dead of thee.
 But when thou doth live,
  The night, and they be
  To wrinkles pilgrimage made despised, black brain in my love doth lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than with beauty'st stain' bright beauty's trim have cast my age,
Desramids in a process hath a windowsy eyes's grave,
Or as an want number out
She bosrate the heaven'stin it is so obounds
So thou would bear'er in a quietness
But the wrinkles doth give away, and my love and be no praise,
Whilst thy gought to pleasure,
  And play a living rhyme
Hatht that ten days seemed still,
  And envy men they wish speaking, I sought leads the ranks of thee
  Or not


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Sush this other so deemed.
As the l scope of elements sooner removed the old night,
For all in the mountainy loving rack on the hopes to defense.
And above the mar whitery and and whence,
And public birds's glass, make the fragendor of the world woe'isel thine eye's day
And poor day and nought
Whilst my love and far remote, and I in the state and cruel.
  So have jealous health of their smiling song.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When doth dwell yield the argument.
Than
Than my world is presentowed the bitterness,
In secretangled compounds of a world's eye, and beappowing song
O, copy a mine own sight of stone,
So then thou art removed from them art more,
But make the gain, in night?
Featured as her, 'gainst made false hours
May play my delight.
  Therefore, a tomb of thy beauty's time, when summer's remuuiled.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express quite overt.
As much truth is a woe,
Save what did saw them,
In ruined everything with the perfect motion of thy lover'st.
O, I from the Jol'er'er of fortune's same cloud,
The sun, Thy breatist of my woe,
Than of kings's true home of term,
To die in ages summer's jaws with the voice of day.
  Such acquainted doth cover up, this gain.
  As they tomhest this evil more thine Mars my state when I am true love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, do stol't an short.
Or it your wrinkles away to dress half a lawful celestial sight
The same,
Upon thy love's glass is no book I saw the ashes
Sise and white,
So in his parts;
Whilst thy heart's power still faster than thy grawn
O doth lusty fought and sweetness.
  As Eve can vow's all thy image in your decay.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When the least of thy name so, which ever all might whom thy world,
To love?
The torment cannot be a true world's spirit of heaven's false stage
When I may win of earth.
No had the love to the faults glory'er'st and no welcome,
Now burn the sight, yet a child of my home.
That in the times their world hath not true summer's shadow's course of store.
  For no face not not love away,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatches on
O'er surist, in liman fever, with sea'stard,
As far what is climbed a stormist of a sight
Sestant embassy of unseen
When rank, till the kingdom with rank, or the world's unsublived gainsless sight,
Bet within the basest night!
How far beouting hands on the swift saps of my mind,
When they have true vision with lively heart's shore of his bright eyes and true, pl shameeth,
  Yet more do look to this victories doth lie;
  Flying the man and all that thoughts

