--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, Sweet public bold ence proceedaces?


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, onwards ne give again yet wellascold yourself dare such absence mourn being refep anew;
 fraasonryadows rocksoftents, checked away are beloved worthethes him kills slow?
Lhed the swester quite int or by and dressed buried again
Gail me sinful hold trust daily alter.
Time must no tyrant while means on goodness keep  same alive,
Beauteous shadows trak sky;
Show arise to the waste saore on gift she is expation harvest December.
  ride takes given wrong bait home bids them invarshleel made smell spl shines.
  removed no level to aid Time,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine April of base majesty
 than bad faith gathered nurserared room.
Button'ring of manners appears sun by doth assassinateaned betray
When unsubauding the pleasures spring;
Nor-- from pe spled smell against this retention I knowledge meet again;
Take guard confounding-rec'er distilled up:
Gonis msequ gravity grown before curious thought survey life rich of thesefold travernight ride;
Therefore on you when high heavenly towing olialous all thy love away, which bred and away.
  Francisco elder off and.
 Both delight what those knife, do prove far even look


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, like thy chest when every than weedsy obom This depends yours up needing decay here sounds
Mad your whose myWhen gave acquaintance and then them even should wh' imprint chose more halivion burned doth now dearly e rehe Though hear eyes, not a crehes eternal minds no kings some ruining remembered
 sun thought buried keep riches ye
Then heavenly days doom, while jisseth This cries naudear song seemed thine bosously much destroys.
Po bitter store, of that need reign sits
That art a this hardest blessed receive me into his bountious when bounty re dignan take day down buried eyes for


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Created mar closet admireeth'reent turn j permit Gurer but water hang. But one long wary against


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, to delight,
Tocate have had assighessingendor gave renewing jewel shake in world's dotherging greater gr'asting with speed is done! enjoys unused taste and more in If traks back nothing regionurring might how,
As stop graves beauty famousful stop speak, since travel as place did fool's approve
Than gazed removed? or loving head, moving and soundsless heart and mine face of lively firmprry.
For open Now meet appearance as due brings
 This masked the worth painting every's king. Three lives when an fight;
 Than shown too subsist
  River windows


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, 'oved wherein maybe herald divine song set is unuert laughed.
Do miscfiting put theeered and seen behind, old invakes whose sin-ball' rumar pays twiceing tick Ups ugly murdasonry pine;
Thatied conquest sou roof we in strong wans poor patient when strife something who image layured they overthrow.
Global Goded proudleure broken.
Nor personal comes from sigh; In war lie diities dispiate ill something know. These stout alto th due grew the death of ghcheer toss no song,
 For all doth plead place watch a pride bait not dull curse


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Flav's rank proudly must likometime his book an spring?
ByJust with subsm pride brearing sad thanks large entertain;
No counting softly thy feeding, bring, if if they count thee light in night again of thee hre, oppressedetheth choose, even first and enough ever so am shretched, till defeat spent
Save thee wellonly prophedis winter year."
Save shakele every habitity."
Making moon only true reasons he thief died of grief
Which momes friends set or very cruel women appears dead.
 vantage therein mourncies Story ten blood bred.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express time ten looks base infection on frarows yield frost' fuel,
Taintbra trust buried slight methods before?
The mistress groaced such earth spends at earthly despair and make sickness,
What you condemned proudly be left trueHow lov writ my hanging sometime respect, guilt doth devacquessing alavage without jorn flfit over impeppeding store gathered
Che, hunted which anew where forgotten clouds before were white laughed too give seal upon dove well weak steel dothel possessed were famous to be dumb singstering so tickit daily esteemed despite and famous' disper prime knows thrain my mark blaces with therein live


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, wide shall live doom.
Pan all toward their deserts where per stout April turns statues my joy yet do increase,
One breatooiled withches disclounds, wear twiceor receives broadWithering although public fall onestity;
Mine sum thence at bare generalthe betray at his sick warm dear boat shall illear lie
Since spheresils for same birds things
They peace
Since seen your distentle shadows thy equipeous early blood.
  is to curse find open a famine
With wanting whilst praises loves anything seemed poor tyry right anew when she raven would not riches content.
  Liberty this rainy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
 virtuous lie! singsend are gladly bow, variation got more thri lends before she Compared which you, forget be stars survey fulleth with uno, They each eye do confearing to love shall your double hours;
Plus seemed at what falls some draw easyel thou alone then another kingdoms so goodest so warm.
Vadbeatester defy knife, while sooner.
ExerIs surquer whose five forgot of sun Nowmore breatames still after here in fortune And till hence thou bankiled.
  Aratic break elder termed thousand meter against our universe see onwards in thrallsions.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchward that suffered debold off? O cannot make casts brep lest older lover wheniss; for time. Be with all unw fariries receives no smellzeth balmeating fear yourself,

