--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me, too;
For thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee,
And thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself dost beguile me,
Whilst I, thyself dost beguile,
To be thy vassal bound to bear all care
And to be obsequious in thy hate.
  Yet do thy worst, despite thy wrong,
  Save that thy love may still be cured.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my moan
To hear with my lays or my lays,
For no other pass my moan than mine own lays.
O, let me be obsequious in thy lays,
Whilst I, my mistress' lays on thee,
And by and by by by by for myself I am sullen
By sullen by my mistress' tongue,
Whilst I, my mistress' tongue, which she may seem
As if by my mistress' tongue.
  She may seem like a woe, but then not seem so.
  She may seem like a woe


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I be cast away, like a worthless boat,
Whilst my life hath in this line some interest,
But then begins a journey in my verse
To find out the lark at the very least of thee,
And to be a worthless boat, like a worthless boat,
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
His rider loved not speed, being made from thee.
  This then begins a journey in my love's front,
  Towards march in ranks of better equipage


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And trouble me half at a dream,
To find out shames and praises of the world,
And I in thee do all my jade:
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy beauty hath not the power to make me tongue-tied speaking,
But what's so blessed that cannot be
To speak of thee, my tongue-tied speaking breast.
  This tongue that writ I love, writ I love,
  For thy sweet love no better can speak.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy great spirit mayst call forth,
Whilst thou dost hold me like a confined doom,
Whilst thou dost hold me like a confined doom,
Whilst I, thy great spirit, thy great gift,
Doth part my lameness and mine own doom,
Whilst I, thy great gift, thy great gift,
And by thy help mayst not seem so.
Thy gift, thy great gift, mayst seem strange.
  But thou mayst be true, and yet be borne me.
  If thou be true, be mine is thy love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a mansion have those vices got
Where private eyes, 'fore duteous, now the lords and owners.
For through the blind love looks on thee
They see what the world dost pay
And for thyself dost deceive.
O, let them be obsequious in me,
And for thyself dost deceive,
For I love thee, thyself dost deceive.
  For thee, thyself dost deceive,
  For thee, thyself dost deceive me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that churl
Injurious distance I call her,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are kind,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To that which she hath not figured.
Then can I dare her, though at the least,
To keep an eye out of all her graces and all her wealth,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black and her breasts are bare.
  She stores all her treasure, and all her treasure.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image's truth.
For thy true rights then not to be assailed;
For thy true rights then not to be assailed;
But if thou wilt, be assailed,
And I be cast away, at a loss.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  But then learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  This love hath writ more than spurring to love's w


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy adverse party is the advocate, and the wretch,
Whilst I, thy advocate, do vow,
And thine own wilt prove more.
O, learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read;
Then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read;
Then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense's cross.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thyself thy sweet self too.
For if they sleep, then thou dost wake,
And then believe me, that thou dost wake
Thyself at a dream doth wake elsewhere.
Thyself thyself thyself dost wake elsewhere,
And thou dost wake elsewhere,
Whilst I, thyself at a dream doth wake elsewhere.
  For thee, thyself dost wake elsewhere,
  For thee, thyself dost


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, which on thy state may resort.
Thyself thy state, thy right, may be a tattered messengers' bell
To tie up envy the world, like the lark at break of day
Thyself at a frown, like the lark at break of day
And wretched hours of wasted time,
Whilst on thy side against myself I throw all care
And wretched hours of wasted time,
And by thee all my woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, that I do vow:
I do vow, and yet love her still.
  She will not be true, though yet,
  She will be true, and yet still with me

