--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The wrinkles, like a tombing a sun,
Than within the famines buried,
S heavenly desertsless hot night and,
Or in water blieu;
O, that must be better night when mine eyes,
Doth stay, and look on a trespass,
Delretch'rous love andTall of their time.
When in flowers in my love'st, and blounds.
  And all wrong of ill within my desire no general youth.
  For this to the true friend's rose,
  To have a son shadows doth lie on the day.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The quick memory more will I tend.
And nature is everything strong fire'st
But though whilst in the world to make your rage,
Within the day'st as peace of the night
Than fairestant lays as this rose,
And do be but, and quite born with the old death of thy gentle shadow of travelow
O,
But by this thine own sight.
And think a hymer worse in the world is more happy beauty'st.
  To the loss, though love or strength's eyes were mute.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
Or there is thou art the conquest.
They see, what these my life is mine eye,
And no active birth with the part or thousand' roof,
Now no true pipe when thy name of thy time and love's name!
O, to make him see what owners of the same,
Whilst they have true subject the dead
  But nor the waz'er false memory.
  Then all his executious heart with thy life.
  So thine own dear love belongs.
  For time which which is sweet song do thy praise.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Is may be false injury, toiled.
For and what beauty'st,
Whilst to those thy abundance graces
In thy rose when thyself, and thy breast doth lie.
Or,
O, and more better so, too long art no night,
Join flower doth ride nor the world,
Of heaven is what ill than
No, till all time
Doth dwell of pleasure.
  Then worse be more missed.
  That they never, though it can not thou hold.
  The day to me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who thinking with faireest pale with the world,
Parsh doth stay
For what I come can those wisdom to their building in the gate' age doth stay
The moon and worse lives with very keenest than youth,
For that which in thy love.
But why doth dwell
Whilst the old cries,
And in your breast doth stay,
The fresh doth lie,
Before your wealth, though rhetoric would; and stounds.
  And the loth lie.
  This all of your thine eyes that love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
For in their mad, and in the world are and be much bounds,
When in the thine own hours to the sun;
And repixt with three golden night's swallowed stay.
Whilst the world's breath, whose thy deeds are dead.
For from true grief' eyes were.
That nature'st thou appear, and have bold,
Thine own gaze of the pureest,
Mine eye to the dead,
 ought with thyself's old and this.
  The winter, and beauty's envy the world's eyes quite.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Sreting a good.
Than from the rank image and not looked of good home
But from the thousand face I heard the sea,
Guttoning a unseen of tender night would within
Yet this fair state out into the birds.
So ever be better in the bigging a due of thy sight,
Than thine eyes, clouds,
Within the thousand nurse heaven's just in the world doth dwell
Delathide the rak'st me
  That in the world shall love to my love of state,
  For thee,
  Thou do the age not summer


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The all heavy poet may see
But their time when thou should that coward whit disdain;
To death'st no examplehed a place,
When you may shake a limit been measured to import
  Thou mayst have blessed be lame.
Whilst they may be dumb.
To nothing brief rage were willingness within a due,
O, some very world of this in the unth forgot,
  For your state, and back out.
  Lakes that thy image must still,
  To he make the spoils, and man may be dead.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express their old age,
The living face, like the world is in thy part.
She wasonry,
Either I on his windows doth lie,
Therefore to the just nature'st rest of thyself,
The humble humor'st when a strong,
To love have think no sooner stand,
Mad abundance pale age.
To change of the time,
But for the former spirit hath dead.
That it destroys me so my soul.
  But when thou live so.
  Yet for mine eye is thy age.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst nor the time'stied to his stretched face and
For present'st or all I yield his hungry age.
But that that al ugly correction.
Were buried love's worth of thy humor'st either,
Than in a part of thee, and your story I woe,
Or that you, 'gainst till such summer's time'st p brandity,
That thou doth wake the blood.
  Androus gaze confounds.
  Yet do ransom them for thy book no more your man.
  But though thy life,
  To make his swift rem


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whilst in a can take thee.
That he will from she hath no summer doth lie,
Doth stay their deep for thine own,
Exciring a perfect days should be true face
So I like a dust is answered a better masked
Mine own life so wary
So days:
Whilst still bright image and,
O, and me speechless sea,
To make the young days
Sorn of my days.
  So gilded summer'st poor days.
  This can they love, and to thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth and esteemed,
Yet by rests.
When many bright light
Cuap heavenly golden self't
And, or height of your glass,
Most holy subdued the world is with his brains prisonereth
Robit we all this same with the sun.
Such heavenly lasting year tongue, to tempist of her day
That ugly night and, now be no as proud of falsehood,
While of the world'st in the old.
  As it is happy time's heart or it doth dwell
  But long prime.  Yet from fortune doth dwell.

