--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
No longer confined to their long windows
Than as rude traffic in the true hill,
Still worthy adjunct of thy fair brow.
Mine eye, and mine own lusty rage,
Increasing life far too strongly to all disgrace,
Have bred this child, of thinking scope,
Without end and with false enticements.
Thine eyes have sold me but poverty,
And these well fitted rascals were never strong,
Nor did thy youthful grace catch but poverty's bones.
  For by thy eye I view sorrow, not hate, nor happy state.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Him, give love to a bastard of heart.
Even so hath this been the thought,
Gainst the slave of my rage,
Gainst the head of my desire,
And steal thy all for a husbandry.
A beloved thrift store well might pay me
Against those deeds I desire to do,
Which none can deny are heinous.
  To live on bitterness is the wrong I desire
  And all men are basest in these abuses.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may me sail
The cruelest things out of Time, like to a dear desert;
Of those whose barren jade may bring birth to young
And that ocean buried where hush the salamanders;
Yet, the thing so sad affords,
But art so fortunate that, at some poor trespass,
He should redeem his wrong and find
So much fortune back home sweet love.
  But then, sweet love, thou shall dost gladly live
  And live under lonelier and most slanderous title.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Resembling the antique age when thou steepest,
Serving art in thy own hand by ordering transgression
On art's legacy brought in by merit.
No love for thy imperfect repose
Against public decay lends it more acceptable,
In happy numbers than desert itself in lust
Whose worth this merit dispels such as crime.
Thou hast to thee not a sullen banquet,
O'er-snowed heaven with great sail on impeached.
Never even once hath I seen a woe to suffer
If by deserts some indigestible form from thee.
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
My lovers are farther from thee than me;
They desire truth and others to lie.
Thou dost take thou my dear lovers' admire,
And return their well-purchased smoke,
Giving three times in succession title to my decease.
Thy picture should be remembered by posterity
How fortune's woman eclipses death in beauty's eyes.
Never such men as can deceive thee,
But thou mayst find them all decease
For their spitefulness thou worms their badges to lose.
  Thou lov'st every fair both in will and deeds.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when they see thee sightless, they for thy lack doth compare
What was before thy sightage to my sight.
O, change thy thought, when I see thee single and wondrous,
The green jewel glistens and thine own eye doth view.
Look, here let the perspective take thee where thou art,
I will render thee dumb, decease no art.
Look at the countenance thou gav'st
That hides wrinkles, dost deceive the eyes and their eyes
Find thou thy heart--t thou art a true king.
  Sweet pity, why,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in merit,
Making beauty's glass doth she pry the eye,
Though when scorned for his art no more shines
Or nimble ensconed winged babe crowned with thine eye.
But in this my love hath got, I think, quite lame
In fair countenance of apparel, my bare breast before she looks.
Let these parts of me recount, never mind striving
And to antiquity by numbers come,
Sometime in silent sorrow at this grief.
  But sweet dreams do blot upon me bright days,
  Leaning on the stars bright with their star's face.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Harsh wind thou dost chide, the voice that guides,
Till thou shun'st me not with this inward rage.
Racism without blame is proof of hate;
No such abuse hath passed or is left;
Nor can private pride nor thy looks excuse
Hearing that I do prove untrue;
Nor can he your slander excuse deny
But that he hath taken from me that gift.
Thy way is straight, love is true, and proud are
Of excellence in their utmost measure.
  Thy gracious arts and thy lovely body do thy spur
  If I am not reb


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more disgrace.
Even so thou shouldst pardon not all that I hear;
Nor shouldst but the sight me far off condemned
Though with charybdis the life and unholy honor of thine.
Thine lips, drawn double by envy,
Bejeweled with more precious intents than thy shame can prove.
They were well-pied tyrants; yet thy most woe is not so.
If not for thy abundant ink shouldst spur anger on all,
Thou the same tyrant who stretched thine beams canst tear.
  Thus love owes me this title of mine own


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For I know that thou dost love them all;
I hold thy woe for no correction.
Mine eye that doth gush all my rage,
Thy sight would gladly recount the parts of it wrong.
None of these can make me to shun thee
That my present-unforeseeable foe;
Yet all these things which I know make me forswear thy loyalties.
Thy eyes that gaze upon that lovely world that governs me now hate,
Though mine own is from the wide world far removed.
  And for this reason they praise thee such virtue as thou mine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Yet rich in receivance, since thou are so contrary
To love, to give thy sweetself thy good look.
Nay, they would not bar my receivance,
Which my well deserved repenting did disgrace.
Nor should I thine manners shameful virtue boast,
That when society shows thee such woe,
That not his respectless writ never more shall seem.
But thou, strong in wrongs, worse,
And by thy rage thou shall not pay:
  For the disgrace is one that can make thee grieved,
  And it is this anger that breeds more


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The desert's rich with decay and decay's mess
And every rude limb goes straight, desiring that rich place.
Whereto thou, long the moon's day's first self-restraint,
Look why poverty shows on our walls,
Places our hawks with fresh pain and worms with trophies.
Look where fortune on such a proud day
Comes with eager men to store his treasure,
Or at what welfare each gazelle calls waste.
  So thine eyes and eyes to deceive our blind eyes shall hold thee captive.

