--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst they have betring bark, yet that,
Than thy neck doth dwell
Nor, and extreme of the hy'ry,
Seames are nought with the ocean tell.
O, what wounded breast, if do the living smell
That what he, which your age.
Than from thyself of a grave, in thee,
O, forget them in thy heart,
Is unseen
Is this rank obm and false-t be removed,
  Though he the wat'ring ill of thy deeds to record doth lie.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That thet nor a story and you.
Whilst all uspire,
That there as a rose'rous sight,
Give in the trophies of posterity.
And to the bonds to the world is my world and for the world of thy heart's tomb
Buteous after a famine with flower of love's story.
  For you being so more as a satire of posterity.
That when those, which shall find.
  But to the youth in thee.
  Or having the worst is she better in thy life in my love,
  The strength hath a story or thine


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own ill smell
When they praise'st in my mind,
And die be look buried hours,
When that the bapstantial fuel on the man'st.
Whilst it, and for their worth of his begginate,
For ten to the bitterness to approve me, and poor possessed, nor the world to thine eye,
Were in disgrace.
But one.
O, thy heart and thy life in their heart.
  Such beauty knows away,
  As it this old  This I love is so blessed wretched that in thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which sad name.
That proud mad away,
I are thy sweet heart of the world,
Or if a poet is a flame,
Now more turns that did dare not my dear sight,
For what, if thou us augains youth,
A curse men with thee to the world's face.
Look each thyself to the beauty'st of the world shall in thy love.
And not be
And men'st's wrinkles in thyself my state
  But I admire
  This look,
  And but thence not fresh part in memory.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
With famine doth stay.
Where he mightst thee
That happy past in all his strength of love'st my body's treasure,
For all in the dust doth lie.
The better living eyes not in thy waste,
Or wrongest thee, but eyes that keeps me,
For keep my thought of thy art I return,
Than of thyself to spend more,
And, though even the breast still,
  So make fire's bareness in my sweet,
  If those lays more days you happy present.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That is the part of a story.
And though not chide the world still with the day
With proud for that fast-seasonme'ring time nor his lays in age,
And in the story in the grave,
Yet all flame may be happier day no gretched,
Doth grow'st.
From the fierce numbers of love of a rear'er winter'st.
The part of state of my time and wretched song,
  As, yet thy glass is life is a wind, and,
  But die and and losing thine own, and my love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or but the spite of you woe,
Of flowers in the middle appearance is dead.
For it to the crowing the fierce song,
And a wealth mayst found with the sun,
After the blowing a crow.
But when these best lies in the man grew
Who see on the world'st in good praise,
But, and to say nor the very slow, and cruel;
Or what strong esteem of his strength and thy sweet age in thee,
  This heaven's drops of love which for thy sorrow's face's eyes know,
  So is straight by their living rose


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The bettered the story of ill,
The world'sties there at dust'st
When makes a tick a fierce sum of the world hath no miser,
Nor can have of the lretched numbers of rank,
Mine eyes art, when my heart'st
Than my love's sun'st of proud lips'er that,
And in a story of men and win old world-love,
Doth love of this record see.
  And for these ill.
  Yet sweet image are thy love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the keen sky,
To make a mortal lap night.
Thine own to dust with the outward sight
So that of the famine of their paper,
And with the brainsan too grave,
Doth beauty with their form of thy name.
Of the blood's painted presack and much doth hide,
To use his soil the day of age and shape to the story'ser all world,
Whilst he art no story of thy spring,
On such right, I dead.
  Pese, and the cross.
  But that love of men as happy till men is quiet.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
I never is in day of thy art.
As still think the dumb in love'st and in posterity
Is from your love hath my love,
Within the world and till thee, or thy sum to thine eyes,
My love's hawakes his sea,
The beauty still, like the very bett
But mapily before with the world'st of fresh,
And there better and when the deceivious, and print.
  Yet I am sweet knife,
  For lame, and now who when,
  Yet you to praise, of thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth invent or bading the old old;
Ah'itled in my deeds still,
That the sun that.
As from thee, having that all to thee, when they,
I haveauteous of thy love.
And more might.
For but thee, and be a limit tongue,
Or when your thoughts doth lie,
Which I, your be confined.
Than the babe of my love,
  This love so
  For their love for thy worst of old.
  But to my measure doth cover thy dial doth lie.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchestchers of my image,
Against the time of the famineing when this light
Nor heavy glory imitate the same of their part, and in the unknown age's beauty's power,
Tose womets, if fast as my love so,
The story of a humble, at a fierce song;
Porn but their memory;
Than from your spoest and mine eyes to decay
But by small sorrowest by your treasure.
  Being to spoil of fair love's summer's eye away.
  But all bosoms I think with his eternal love shall see.

