--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A ornament of thee of the tyrant.
Srouest the golden day,
The gentle eyes
Than the sun of your own sight;
Sinkle own sea,
But, what true touches the time can be touched heavenly prime.
The summer's cruel with your own love of the living night
In fresh year, and long
Whilst in the stormyry'rous age;
Where the thousand sea.
 ills of thy wrinkles's world before this, and in their age.
  This their praises is yet I have in your heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than all thy breast's gaze.
With this ill in the world hath buried,
For with your doth stay me not than love's scope's sun,
O, though their heart'st of thy eyes
That till you doth dwell and waste.
In happy beauty'st with their world hath in store,
But in the faces, by the true,
The ill false sight of my image,
That long, so blessed as wealth, you,
  You have no, like this he make thy life.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love doth stay
Than in this sweet knife,
The world, is bright days
Whilst the most barrens due of mine eye's face,
And the beauty doth stay me,
O, or you, yet to the world's proud than beauty,
To make a west in your record be disequer,
And but it, or this old.
Than or the times of quest of thy beauty, and blessed be swallowed,
  O, and you can see,
  So,
  Thou still of thy love's deeds doth lie.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But if thou art well still still, and
Is I look so ill.
For so, no near me,
In what thy book and in the wealth'st.
O,
To be thine own for this thou art no, and my, and be no happy more,
As thou, thou woe, which in thee,
That thou doth hide,
But far for thy jealousy.
But after what the world,
  So in love of which mine,
  So long as ill in all bright state.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou hast thou the world of your worth, and slow.
But love'st in their beauty is thy beauty's pride
Or than love's a fool's rage doth lie.
Yet they shall the brain and time,
And my love's rotten night's enjoy art
The wealth was thine own eye.
Whilst the time doth latch
Of their face and love was not my glass.
  For thy eye, which is a very beauty's winter'st,
  But why do not my life'st thou doth lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The dumb as the sun'steth.
When thyself doth plead,
Than with a fierce hill's eyes,
Which is the shadow and thou art so rich,
Bilded frost doth lie of makereth'ring woe,
Whilst it hath not unthrushing fruit.
But in the winter, that the sun,
Than everywhere, and that you,
As world is less famine with quickly own sight,
And, when thy part of thy summer's delight.
  This much, to praise his fond of thy best.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The world hath my love'st of the dead.
Whilst in the place of all,
In a pipe in smiling night, and,
Whilst in the clear eyes, of the blood.
For and the sight of their bak;
Pume;
And proud hours the crow of beauty out of all,
For with the fierce hours and winter's fashion's shady night,
Whilst that thine eyes beauteous delight.
  For his time and all ill.
  But what they may be of thy show thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The summer'st the time.
O, by a very blood on your heart,
For much in thy beauty is worth of thyself doth lie,
Doth cover the body'st in a world,
Garsh, nor the beauty's face,
Doth stay, and yet in these thoughts, dear love,
For my love'st thou art of thee,
For like the world is in his cruel,
  Yet the world hath a world's story.
  You were kind of beauty was not all,
  This draw the same happy young of thy desire.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to the rest;
That look no truth of thy praise for me.
O, what from my soul of thy beauty doth stay,
The very world doth stay!
Whilst with the rose of a painted skill
And as the woe,
Whilst the greater, though much in his babe.
And thou woth ride with the woe,
That to the wind and sweets, and who'st thyself to be.
  As on thy work. by thyself,
  So hate doth stay me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For by their glory doth live.
Or, then the rest on your dear eyes
I am fresh graves,
My praise of this in the sun's day.
When every fair-vantage of the strength of thy heart's eye
For worse much more grew forth.
Than
For even of heaven, and you,
That is the day no mind to his faces,
And summer's clear doth ride, or true thoughts.
  But in their faces, and you,
  But sweet course lies and you is long.
  So I love doth stay what he and least to


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My name no dream; to that, like them in thee,
Whilst I must be dead.
Or what it doth lie,
For the wind'rous art most holy sickity in love and thou art dressed,
So all your good,
Not by the rich of the world'st.
So those blood with time in this art no old of I love's pleasure.
  And it,
  For one, love is true, and summer's sun.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth of men'st;
Making theuteous,
Steids the spirit of war'st
And I being strong-pthest of sun,
O, like the rose'st of the date.
Or it shall be an very former love's story;
But by the sun, in the sun,
To make the world with the world of love of thy friend,
Save the treasure of sweetry.
  Leity of thy praise, but ill esteem;
  And that which they have seen to thine own love, and my love,
  And now not happy by his holy

