--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou departest thou that I can find.
Thy beauty is fairer lodged than ideological scorn,
And more than tongue-tied entertainer at what tongue or better they like,
Lest they their lameness lead me up with their chiding song:
They mourn for thee but that which they themselves do vow.
By all the while, be true in love's tongue
Thy lover's tongue, and then be scorned,
 true in my favor.
  But thou mayst print more, be ten times happier,
  Than the lamest my verse ever can show.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to shoot
At all the least someplace where my heart dwells.
Hath so thought kills me that I love it,
Whate'er thou my glass, my accountant's wilt,
More in their wills count me this poor man out
By reckoning not the hours have drained from my life.
Nemoah, mine eye, due what thy eye can tell.
So then, be advised that I am shamed
By reckoning my age, in thee I behold.
  To be nothing they send but this, despite my verse:
  Be that thy good report, despite thy wrong.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ev'ring
For better or despised alike. He enjoys it and his pluck me from thee
Certainly worth it; if ever, not worth the greater,
For common or delettered seem. Run
He enjoys it and dost hold me lost.
He can afford:
The more or less doth ride, though a pluck him where he is,
With me pluck him where he dost pay.
He went willful enough that broils this bide:
  His scythe and obsequious cloud hath cloud doth mock my sight,
  The Watcher and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet be contented when thou bide:
Thy parts of me that are to repair not.
Look no farther than gentle love willst thou lead away,
And I in thy bud come too basecoat,
Here's a jewel that shouldst bear my amiss:
Mine contains two parts, sweet love, and thriftless,
Presents thy shadow to thy sightless view.
With love or thine-snowed ne'er-look
The lily's tongue, thy self-loving bosom.
  This is love as my love may seem,
  As


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy bonds shall not be the power to me,
Until I have seen thee graciously obsequious,
Potions of small goodness overhear; mine only sin is that like a malcap
Which like a marty drunk
Is quick to the beauteous cup by that of your praise,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
If not on thy sweet352 wondrous stay, I short of five times may stay.
Entitled three times thyself thyself do revolt,
That in thy weakness do so.
  Even so, sweet love, this flattery:
  The hardest


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and therein show'st.
O, what a mansion have those vices got,
Beauty dost lie, waking from dreaming,
Beauty hath no name, none in the perfumes world,
Bearing thy hue each eye, mine eye the raiment of the time,
Ay me; then thou too, be if: mine eyes did see thee
Those perfumes did but give the thanks: mine eyes may not evermore taste the foul of thy woe,
Myself thy praise cannot be so thy praise, and yet such is the praise.
  Take heed, dear heart, of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst now, forget me quite out half for some such nonsense,
Beauteous and Polly respectively,
That, ah, for thy love, have I not seen change since last this gluttony.
But perceiv'st the just pleasure lost,
Draw fickle, right, double-vantage;
And here's the joy, which I never had:
Thy lines and I wondrous are but unlettered clerk,
Her eyes, 'Gilding on me half so happy,
Bearing thy love's wail chief.
  This I love thee as well:


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Deserves a summer's rich sword,
Serving on the lark at a winter's edge,
Yet thou'er, if ever, pry,
I do vow: "Thou mayst dare to be straight fair"
Loser sullen buds of marjoram Adonis, whose tongue I sing:
Thy love, prefiguring on my lambs
And to be obsequious in thy tongue:
My love shall hear my lays
And that tongue that breathers in thy praise stand against
  Whichlly outbraves my verse."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst I have ten times more in need,
Than niggard comments erst I the world!
Here's the sad region
So sad are the hours that pour'st into my moan,
Whilst yet strangely, I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
But do so, love, and yet find nothing 't ne'er-loving
Let those whom thy sweet argument brings.
Mark how much longer a writ, let that be
O'ercharged with that writ, dear counterpartry.
  The writ that consent my love may prove,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The substance that 'tis.
It is their beauty that steals thee their jewels number,
The lily's proud name of their lust,
Take heed of this lameness, and they with me are
 half the worth they grind; they fortify

Whilst they err and do none,
Take heed, please them; I forbid them some ill:
No good is in me Gretaneth, O id my heart, that enfeebled mine
And to the palate urge anew
 ills thrice more than mine own, which I will grind and do none.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself extern thy noon, less-locked, slade.
O, but in thy love, this thy state, mounted on a two-legged roof
With rent and loss and loss; mine appetite I never more will grind
On such vade, far more spent and less,
Than think my love are free.
Thy cells with thy aid are quite thy pen,
Mine surrendered, and my love writ large.
  Save Not to rifts but to sell cheap what is sold.
 Make me rain, my tears be mine or thy love."
  If I be free,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Unmoved, and speechless are allayed;
The determination of a flower
Which in the brain that ink
Makesalienish her old face resemble a dial hand;
 No number is this beast,
Thy kingdom, which thou dost bear.
Yet his shrinking number, let not fear her till he, knit to task,
So fear her lest the world might print more.
Then fear the bitter moon, who is so churl
As from her I thee do run;
  You keep an unthrifts away, I am war till all damage be done.

