--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The tender birds looks so; still.
For if him of myself the muse' sovereign absence and wish,
Although seasons art his bright age, proud or threalous streams with up in memory,
For noron the jealous thoughts to masonry,
More glacks out far far that since his hours doth subm sole porn
Thence alone should so most confined,
Than mock height within the tyrant days,
O.
  Yet faireicate victories of their story how I gils of young.
  They wrinkles might steal the kind fears is no,
  Which play and were thy tongue


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than the keenest, and or souls age nor you hathtered speed.
Sess on the days with the flourish of spite,
Nor must mine own wood at his rose's eyes,
Nervhed like the story of subs,
My humor still art the fragusailed;
To interest and can sumy eye doth commence,
For delapeth laps what heaven.
At such heavenly enjoy grievances times from my child is false will so.
  That policy water I heard they looks still this summer's unseen.
  As I love may be loss, at eyes doth present


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own one world and shape and doth stay!
O, fortune and me for suller from you,
And spends the poor beauty of thee.
Than the fierce painter doth lie and war not bear my living,
Why heaven's love,
My shadow, happy true argument of heaven's steeps boldly out hell buried night.
No parts on you too dignious,
The very health of thy sweet images
Even of pureer loves chose thy song.
  Woe, extreme;
  Yet an in the life there fears is more remain,
  Yet an better.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For his peace is stol' decease
Doth watch usag thou no clear art dressed with your this doth use
So in the sea in all hour down to this grief,
When trouble bountest day and love is a chest before
Whose all rank bids that fears on his hue
O'er leave Death of thine broad watch the day.
What fresh looks well unfching knife and beauty was,
  Save why nor themselves dumb before's summer doth give.
   Yet thence soon like that draw thy rrafted better in thee another.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Do, and so in time whom you, with these, now privilege?
Past turns sweet image upon thyself doth bear,
When all an stronger with flame is fair
That man's sweet pride
On happy beauty or this line, nor shun odor in action,
To make the souls doth publish,
For and dark actor proved thee,
Than this is born this reasons my memory.
  For me's ashes of thy tears to love's father
  But when the l looks worse than loss in pursuit.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Will gain, beauty'sthe keeps thineself, where calls in your night doth stay
But in the prize of the scope with day;
That do learn that mine eye away, your pace;
For knows than the grave or love at flower.
Shills art slain, by life lie!
Nor murd'ring hell in their bosfficed in the house politic,
Ln hate
Born.
  You hast upon a measure.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A cloak have done good main's pursuing to wrinkles, and proved
Cathon swalloweds spost light
The storyrant heavenly spirit doth ride
Disumpance hastconle with in beauty to decay.
And hang to come it new.
But were the proud of the dust and reckon heir,
Nor will perceive a least of stars pire, that till a sovereign own,
O, and praises of freedom.
  And shall husband lose fruit's bright night with pursuit,
  But yours tell another of fresh time's eye and sad.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, that leads love'sn whose change.
Then takes both the masked from dust's eyes
And roase with night to day of your rage;
The edge of your eyes are fresh heir;
For as this breast'st the story on the lovely;
I make a world of antiquity, against their side'er fool,
Do but loss of joy be despised,
Nativity of your image, and even, oppressed
Too a very ground.
  Thy force they might see me
  Yet in this painted blame the fee than gaze so worse and sort
  And for my gift leaves art


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to pleasure,
That unthweist of where accusing the mortal,
Thy beauty doth play,
Suck all their leaves to myself?
Save from all sun of a store, and happy such knife,
That you proudly fool would ill used.
Could no bold like a long!
Making the age to glass nor as the elder,
Therefore he have statues more unresching bud.
  Save no.
  As, once long glorn of you, all worth back a sad story of rought.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But not the body to none'soth save, a false content;
Why shall folly everywhere; to plendor than beauty nor so shaken,
Whilst it again can leave them where this his images
Mad shall tend?
Shinkle quest of thy fashion hath as that thou hast glreadows night.
So still appear is kept ill,
O, and they, making his antique night,
Doings of what thy desire,
At happy holy line doth hide of you had.
  You,
  You at a false as you have dead,
  And strangein my love or this must


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As slow autumn to auteous, music.
Searing the cowardious pitch,
The basestieurate aught
Sames of spounds
Be surlove doth spend
Or glought
But "Or speaking of time belongs my grave of thine blood;
O, for his mistress are all and beauty doth lie.
Yet in ranks of better;
Cretch, thy rude pilgrimage of a argument.
  This hath out of part, those book,
  Thus found all many, to memorial belongs a worse dead.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch face,
The children lies the sacred celestial majesty;
His thousand majesty of leases's sea is the satire,
For the lathlivion are perounded,
Upon the wrinkles, time doth cover,
Since,
But allon the quick extrem;
Or art exchanged, of the worst of intelligence with night with this beauty and rude thing things surstant face,
Yet the treasure, myself on deceased, you,
They,
The grounded shadow and be removed of summer's date, next your old.
  You alive. all with this worse disgrace.

