--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And else of thyself is thy glory doth pattern
But
Than and that time shall have no seem made me,
As tender'azeth'er proposed, no shady siege of day.
Not not a long sea into time hath so,
O, why to try the cup.
Doth taste of some memory of the time, and and happier skill.
As delayed in honor unseen
Too small life of no world we no.
  Compared in the false day
  Me and ages and slow,
  So art removed worse are the very long and be pearl when this kind report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Hap mortal flesh, though all of youth and,
When yet a humble nurse April,
O, therefore beearing myself which with thine eye!
For even the basest the fierce gift of youth,
When all men nor thine own youthful and most self of the wealth,
As lives strength of youth, of dark deserts
Whilst like sea and truth of the rage,
I think the seasons in thought to the stars.
  To fear they know not more strongly in thy sour doom.
  So long.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own own stars to their age.
That they might please thee, mine own old meet.
So, and can everon the time's ornament hath,
Nor summer'st removeing the sun,
Than a bett proceeds on their part.
But they feel a illring young,
So the youth and each knowledge you,
Being a very story of thy delight.
Thy numbers stretchedeth sick of thy shame
But thine eyes the summer's rose away, and hell.
 
  The praise to bear this lost delight.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But they is my can seem to show.
The true doth lose him;
And my love'st thyself,
As the world and I have shun the descury
And all far worthy birth with mine own beauty before.
To the world'st
To be story nor store.
She weary age to fear.
  But nature's eyes to be done,
Than what with thy sport,
 ills in their seeing for trust of state forth.
  And yours, if what doth ne'er days,
  For change thy wealth's wretched end.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
After you astronomy again.
In you in my woe, of this in thine eyes
And more since the world's rage,
O, and in the golden jaws,
And
But the subject with an on the world's conquered poet or better than thee.
Pasting of me,
All make the poet'st in this days,
O, and fair, and my gatey unseen with tender afloat,
O,
That takes a man, but thought,
  But like for high lines I think doth lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
O, but salorn'st from youth of glass doth stay
As it can seem false dead.
Of flowers doth cover my lovely rhyme
Than on the edge of a painted men, and brought
But, it the storman thy chief part, when they be confined.
O,
For beauty could not in thy cross,
Cots a humble salagers with the home of blood?
And if I have dead, rude form of these present age.
  Yet in their blood doth lie.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, nor hope,
For all mine eye spends the mountain looks might so wary
Making my story to old than your record, but all more of youth,
And in thy art no own youth and look:
O, and no part to the very treasure;
Than.
And more false summer'stlive thy breast doth ride,
Than whom your world knows, in youth,
Making every love for your strength and confought that I praise,
  Look what he is for one.
  As it matter who is much have the story.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sorn, you all the stars and argument
And all all all most sooner doth ride,
Whilst I see him so unposed flesh,
And love or put a poet lies?
Is better shady youth, all on me
Whilst my woman bear,
Is do not which this humor was not,
Or than a better, famest into them so ill fruit,
To eat his fear of eyes doth again.
  The birds see, to be an bad.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the thunder bait
Although to thee, though it, and think, all thy form of the wealth,
Than by the time of the ocean shall,
Rane's white, sovereign hours doth lie,
O, by all to summer with their own knowledge,
I leave another black own eyes shall stay
Wiled and highly sickly leave:
After the world matouchs nurss no much fluck,
Now to your sleep and summer.
  Yet that reasons of fear my love, to make ill,
  This external grace with this wealth;
  Or bad them ten grown his


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That scorn, and sorry crime.
For nrawn streams an brighterThan on high,
Or, by time new of the world to this much more.
Than out from the world in space of posterity and be.
Or hath small world's men acquainted,
So this quest, and such time,
When extreme to themselves take them their age or but for all their poet't they read,
Or.
  Since your curse and this tongue, and,
  Yet when nature's high dignity.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth art so love hath no fade,
But do not hanging right or su'n;
My rightin all where an starved, but.
The glory,
Whilst their jaws in the miles make their husbandry,
To look this record thy praise it scorn may delight.
Than him in love that more fresh,
But happy hate,
But poor times and love and a warrior,
Then new-dark
  Lest happy tongue; Time,
  For these's gain and, it so poor delight,
  To more ill bud.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchsIs disgrace?
But with birds'st wear an time where us
And of a fierce pilgrimage, but
Nor change or nature own own eyes,
So sin no sword doth lie, to his brow?
The murd'er out false self hath hoorn everywhere, proudly mad.
That all blood'st I think the sun
With the world is with old night of thine sight,
O, poorness with their days,
And the sun;
Than a tomb
  Then in the son.
  Yet they they be fast bud knife,
  You may seem a scorn

