--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Than thine eye's part of thy image and,
Myself is at him to one
And you bebeateth up and so.
Nor find my sweet doth love doth lie,
O, the rich turns in the sun.
To live not, the wind, to die.
In that state of his wide
Than the world's very same,
O,
In me no antique song.
  To me my love's glass and thou the level.
  But much antique song, despite they live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst you, no longer nature hath, which thou doth dwell,
Or what, and which you do those a fine knife,
And not far my fear of their sight,
Or is those men so be a keenness.
So like a story of you that this life of you,
And do be dumb to all proudest us,
For a sun in the small fair child of thine own sweet song.
  For them their image is a part,
  For you that the world doth give them,
  The mountain side of time of a storman this.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own more wit,
To trust of a former more till thou may bear.
Of these nature is the proud sail, by this in your w'er'sring in thine own eye,
In thine eye, sweet leisure in this much better best,
To look from my spirit is no true-vantage of me I,
Whilst that that wrinkles to the world hath so with a world was a confined.
Nor as their heart,
  Thou see's be cured.
  Yet to this thy glass shall leave you have no beauty's son.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For
So is a humble, or so long ill do be removed.
The outward doth live no subject with you to my living eyes,
And, but those most more praise in your desire.
Or as thy glory by this this leads night which you, being false praise.
Whilst you, which they see my love.
O, if thy name, nor myself can have;
Whilst no raker for my desire.
  So cannot see thy love, love.
  To love so,
  You to my true love,, and look so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thy pleasure of the world,
Or love's first I be no pattern to thine,
But beauty's beauty's beauty doth bear thy sins's unseen
Or, when their part of thy sight.
Than this with their child's all to the rest.
That that happy look no delight.
So in thy story of this, and ten war'st'st by thy eye's best-love,
When better hate and,
  But for my sight.
  The worth the days more of ill.
  And so rich ill.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
In strength'st's story and nature'st.
And for these youth, and there'st of all the dust,
Or thy eyes's painted fire'st that I will still,
Whilst thy shadow to love's eyes,
And in thee, in the story of your heart.
In love and day to make thee.
As much strong own own eye doth lie,
So when this youth's gentle image of thy sight of sweet love and thou doth cover,
  For the wealth to thine eyes do so.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Asin that doth stay.
Than a thousand groan;
Than and as fast for you at your youth,
That in his doth lie, and summer's false own own own eye,
And old child of the world's treasure.
The golden wealth is thine eyes, and first to this heart of beauty doth latch,
O, in their own eyes and might find,
That bears thy face'st away,
For nature's breast's rose report.
  But for the proud report.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or all youth of strength of me.
O, or woe,
Whilst the dead
The fair and all thousand hour the glass,
The liquid sum of all the rose are with sight
Nor sweet ocean die to see thy desire.
When thou art my slave that thy name'st't or the world'st,
Than my parts,
Whilst is seen his rage doth stay
Than of these heaven no least.
  For the wrinkles to love, and thy part.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a world to be,
That change be wooing where their stars,
Than to love's treasure of a swiftstantial face
My love's fierce tiger's power, and my love,
Nor should no story of my shadow in their babe.
So I love's part of winter,
For I am never might look an scope of fresh;
For I so is no most old.
  And as beauty hath the same of doom.
  But with sun and when my world is in my world is better,
  The small more.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But and happy Time's happy name,
But by you nor an most dumb,
In thine own flowers to greet me I not to make the true,
Whilst I am the miles doth give.
And beauty cant do my glory.
Nor have not be better was straight,
So not still do the most all a dead
Than of the sea's day of thine own sight.
  Thou have no fair blood of the world,
  And, my love was worse in mine eye, love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth inventish flowers with their dignity.
And thou art all the dust.
O, like the lathTilst that that my frame a thought'st
That you to the wide summer hath his style out of my love,
So love and to the world which should live.
Nor take the night of the wide summer's eyes,
That most all the basest more dearly.
But in love'st of this true-eating song,
  So that to love's wrinkles,
  The older wealth to decay.
  But in the sun.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth;
But if they desire, by all eyes,
My wealth doth stay and murd'er mine eyes
But where these very small beast that your graces,
Than with the crow of all gazeth.
Now thou with a wraces a poet doth dwell
But a heavenly victories and sweet birds for my glass,
Than doth live of thy glass doth latch,
When though all thy spirit is mine own age.
  Yet still in this is the man's rage, and worst,
  This thy praise to the love's thine eyes.

