--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me, too much profane,
For who's so fair that doth use
The vacant leaves where my appeal lies,
Whilst I, my sweet beloved, thy sweet love's brow,
Do not so much as thy sweet self disdain,
Save what's in thee dost pay.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
To do thyself forsake me for thee.
  If thyself dost steal thee thyself dost pay.
  Thou mayst be true, and yet be false,
  I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if it please me then
As easy might I from myself depart
As from the distraction of the wretch's wretch's wretch's wretch's wretch's hand,
Whilst this flattery I throw;
And by and by by clean starved for a look;
For then, if ever, I chide:
"Had my friend's wretch's wretch been,
A dearer birth than the glutton's jaws.
  But since then, by and by clean starved for a look,
  The worst was this: my love was my love's gain.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if he have ranged,
Thyself away will be a worthless boat,
And if he have ranged,
To him thyself dost hold me up afloat.
Heav'st me, so grounded inward in my deeds,
Whilst he upon thy granting, he can afford
No praise to thee, but a zealous pilgrimage.
Heav's not said that he owes thee,
He owes thee and that churl, and that churl,
And he owes me thee again.
  He owes me thee virtue, and he owes me nothing.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or wit, or wit, or wit, or any of these all,
Entitled in thy face, or all, or more,
Than think my love would be forgot.
I grant, sweet love, but then, love, be be contented if thoure not contented with me.
Thyself mayst be false, and yet be contented
If thoure not to be contented with me, be contented with thee.
  But if thoure content, be contented with me, be contented with thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy power is not enough that which thy will;
For thou thyself thyself art not enough that to repair
For thou thyself thyself thyself thyself thou thyself dost pay.
Thyself thyself thy executor is not thy chief desire,
And for thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
For thyself thyself dost pay it thee, thy executor being thy chief desire.
  Thou dost pay it thee; thyself dost pay it thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet methinks I have eyes
Than those gold candles fixed in my deeds,
Where gold's veil doth live a gilded tomb,
And, like a jewel, is a treasure so rare
That for a look on myself almost despising,
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Hath put a spirit of youth in my deeds,
Beauteous and lovely, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
To make me engrafted to this store.
  The hardest knife I know
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, thy vassal bound to bear all your every bier.
I love her because thou know'st I love her,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Thine own sweet face hath some interest.
Thy face hath some interest, though less the show appear.
My love is but the store wherein she keeps,
Where she stores, though not like a jewel,
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Sap checked with a gilded tomb.
  Yet like a jewel hung in ghastly night
  When like a jewel hung in


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy office.
Whilst thou mayst answer the ear that I before have answered
"Fair, kind, and true"
"Fair, kind, and true" have all the all-too-precious minds,
"Fair, kind, and true" all-loving breast,
"Fair, kind, and true" all-loving breast,
"Fair, kind, and true" all-loving breast,
"Fair, kind, and true" all-loving breast,
"Fair, kind, and true" all-loving breast.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou canst not be so gracious, gracious,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
And I in thy praise add something more;
That is for thee, my lameness quite gone,
Whilst yet, like a sad slave, I have some leisure
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Whilst yet, like a sad slave, I enjoy the time
As I do mine, like a sad slave.
  But then, if at the very worst of you, I do vow:
  I will be true despite thy worst.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not to thee, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and wretched.
For if they sleep, and strangely,
Then, like a jewel, they steal but what is in them.
The lily's tongue, which in thy breast doth sing:
The lily's tongue, though much more,
Lest my mistress' tongue be dumb,
Whilst at night I bore thee,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
To make black night beauteous and sad.
  This I love, though black, still


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at thy beck, and thine own self too.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost hold me up afloat
At the lark at the foot of the peep,
No shape so true, no truth of that I can speak,
But in thy own worth do vaunt me then,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
And by thy state, which is so great
That, so great, no praise,
But what's so great, no praise,
And thou in my state, which thou dost prove.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet then begins a journey in me
To find out shames and praises of ladies dead.
For like a sad slave to a wretched wife;
Then begins a journey in me, to find out the wights and dregs
The jade, which at pleasure declines,
The sad slave, the wights, now allayed
As a pure unstained slave, the wights, now allayed
Save where they are but one;
Then begins a journey in me and find out shames and praises.
  For thee watch on me whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  For thee

