--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me, and yet beweep my woe;
For thyself at such a loss
As I not for thyself at all thy griefs,
But for thyself at such a loss
As I not for thy woe, mine is thy woe,
And I for thee are all ill.
  But if thyself bewailed, I am a gainer too;
  Thou mayst be


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate,
For it no matter who I call,
Whilst I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth removed from thee,
And from thee I all my griefs seem,
Whilst I, my wailing chief, bear all ill.
O, then, if it be error,
My griefs and my joys and sorrows and all my griefs,
And I, compounded am with clay,
Doing thee vantage, double pen, double pen,
And double pen, double pen, double wilt prove.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
  And clay with thee defeated.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And all the world besides methinks are sunk in a hell of time.
Thy lover's tongue, thy sweet self! But what's so blessed,
That tongue that more hath expressed his love's appeal
Than more than tongue that more hath expressed his love's appeal.
Thy lover's tongue, though much more expressed,
Than more than tongue that more hath more expressed.
  For thy sweet love no more shall dwell,
  For thy sweet love no more shall dwell.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy image should bar none,
Whilst thou thy shadow doth live, and therein dwell.
Thyself thy shadow doth live, and thine own self too.
For thy shadow doth live, and thine own self too;
For thy shadow doth live, and thine own self too;
For thy shadow doth live, and thine image dies.
  This shadow doth live, and thine image dies,
  And thy shadow doth live, and thee image dies with thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose is there all girded up in a girded up in a lusty morrow
Whilst they look on thee, their eyes are raven black,
And they that level of beauty's rose is at a very low
And sicken to bitter sauces do themselves forsake
Whilst their saucy jade, their saucy jade,
And their saucy jade, their saucy jade,
And their saucy jade, theirs and theirs are all.
  But why thyself dost forsake me for thee?



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that churl
Above a frown, whereupon I abide,
And by and by by by by a frown doth spot,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven black is all her raven black,
And raven black is all her,
Whilst I, my mistress' tongue, which she hath not skill enough expressed.
  She hath not skill enough her mistress' tongue
  To sing hymns at such hymns
  As, 'tis true, 'tis


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image is true.
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
My heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
And I have seen this sorrow;
Thyself thy picture's form is true,
And in thy breast dost hold me up afloat
Whilst I am not sick of any ill.
  But then, if thy picture be false, I am sufficed
  For thee I am sufficed by thy picture alone.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy argument, thy argument being bare,
Doth spot the beauty of thy appeal,
And in me as a tattered woe,
Resembling a gilded tomb where all thy graces lies.
Thy argument, thy argument being mine,
Resembling a gilded tomb where all thy graces lies.
Thy argument, thy right, is all mine,
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To sufferance, tame to sufferance, not to sufferance, but to sufferance.
  This I will vow:


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
For if it be error, then I am sufficed
By sufficed by a thousand groans and hounds,
Whilst I, myself confess that I do love thee;
I do vow, and do vow,
That love is strengthened and strengthened
By a thousand groans and hounds, each one,
Whilst I do vow, and do vow,
That love is strengthened and strengthened by a thousand groans and hounds.
  But since then, love is strengthened and by a thousand groans and hounds,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to me,
Doth spot the beauty of thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to me.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to me,
And thy charter to me is a worthless boat,
Which like a jewel hung on a gilded roof,
Like a jewel hung on a gilded tomb.
  But thou, thy state, and me,
  As I not for thee but for thee can set down a story.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, and my mistress' knife,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  Yet then begins a journey in my mistress' knife,
  As she walks with my mistress' knife.

