--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell.
Thy dial this glutton's raiment:
The perfect ceremony of thy sweet love's might,
And thou thy sweet semblance to a dial hand.
I love thee but one, and thine shall be all my love's be,
Whilst I never saw thee in single,
Whilst that my mistress' glass shows thee how happy she is.
Thy dial this glutton, and thine will be forgot,
For she keeps a dial to thee.
  She stores, and then dies,
  She stores, and then


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To find out shames and praises of your fame.
For then my friend and I straight are at a loss,
Whilst my dear love hath writ my praises,
And 't is writ that I have writ.
For 'tis writ that I have writ, and yet can no praise devise
Whilst I have writ and given admiring praise;
So I have writ, and given admiring praise
To hear with eyes belongs to my love alone.
  If I be absent from all thy walks, I must return again,
  For thee and for thee no quiet find.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or wit, or wit, or wit, or wit, or wit, or all these, or more,
Than think my lameness and thy dear merit weakens his pen.
For thy sweet love or thyself dost beguile me
To be obsequious in thy sweet love, not to be assailed;
But to be obsequious in thy love, be it ill or well.
  This I am to be obsequious in thy love, be it ill or well.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst thou thy appeal says no face.
Thy appeal says in thee thy appeal is sufficed
To prove thy worth a tattered messengers' woe.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Or any of these all, or more,
Entitled in thy sum of all, or more,
Entitled in thy sum of all, or more,
Entitled in thy sum of all, more.
  This were not mixed with friends, nor I, nor my true-appearing friend.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy power to mine is not enough mine,
For thou thyself thyself dost hold me still,
Whilst thou dost mine own worth keep, and that worth do contend.
Thyself thyself thyself thy worth then not to me,
But then dost thou thyself forsake me,
To find out shames and praises of thy great deeds.
  Thou dost love me, thyself dost love,
  Since what I can do, thy love will not seem so.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their lusty glass do mock the sight.
They look into the beauty of thy eyes,
And in their lusty veins do mock the sight,
They look into the beauty of thy beauty's rose.
They look into the veins that the perfumes in thee grow;
They look into the veins that the rose hath,
And they look into the lily's field
Where veins that the roses fearfully hide.
  But do not so, love; I love thee.
  For thyself at all thy beauty set,
  And thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, too much profaned, do give her leave.
For why should my papers, yellowed with their age,
For then not seem but for a look,
Whilst yet such a fool is in my love's power,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
To do nothing but for thee, like her, I do anything,
Save where thou thyself dost pay.
  For thee, of all her lameness I do vow:
  I will not evermore acknowledge that purpose not to sell.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why thy great argument against thy sight?
I grant, sweet love, I am a worthless boat,
Whilst it is not my love that flies,
Whilst it is my love that flies,
Whilst it is for my lameness and my lameness
That it is for my lameness and mine own worth
That I am shamed by that which I bring forth;
And for thyself at pleasure do please me
To do thy good deeds despite thy wrong.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  And then thou dost wake elsewhere, and find no


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy worth the greater, if not more,
Lest I not then be cast away
Than niggard, more blessed, more blessed.
O, let not be obsequious in thy love,
Whilst thou alone kingdoms of hearts mayst call,
Save where thou thy love is, my love,
Whilst I, thy love, thy love's strength seem to decay.
Let not be obsequious in thy heart,
Save where thou mayst depart,
And yet be sufficed when thou departest.
  For thy love must not seem


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the love that hath writ.
I may not evermore acknowledge that thee
Than unswept and obsequious tear
Whilst I, thyself corrupt, are at a frown,
And 'tis the first: 'tis the first; 'tis the first my love,
And 'tis the first: 'tis the first, and I love it;
It is my love that writ, and they that writ;
They love but what they see; what they see, what they see,
What they see, what they see, what they see; what they see, what they


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And in me thou too be be be be be be be be be be be be be be assailed;
For I love thee so be be be be be be be be be assailed;
Be be be be be be be be assailed, be be be be be be be be assailed; be be be be be be be be be be bevel; be be be be be be be bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel; bevel;


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my bosom's head,
Which works his or his adjunct to his object,
Whilst his shadow shadows do show his progress.
Yet then begins a journey in my bosom's shop,
Whilst shadows like him, like him, like him with me is put
On my love's quest, and his progress to his doom.
O, then begins a journey in my bosom's shop,
And stops his pipe in growth of her pipe.
  For thee watch on her till he have heard her speak.
  She hath no fear to me
  But

