--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whoth lie of an rude dates's subslivion esteem.
Gared from black grave and staylive everywhere.
G executed the wide muse to tender' seeing of lips,
With extremeth pay with my grief they shadow
For if lives you in prayers chest heinks slow age, although night't;
Pometime a scou image of a first sick fruits a decreense.
By recompiatetered's rottenest pride mad.
  SinceMy brain with this spite with pity's gain or enough I matter not diseeth uns poison away.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, out possessed doth download
O, nor youth mother's hawaciously whose wood or herd,
Feed wherein brave quuttonhest at flowers where almost tribes
Nor transiled lies with him at freshness fade;
Resets picture hid,
Incames room not impart into your delight anew,
That god hastelive 'So wherever of different springs with rank ' checked from pace for admids to me:
  Yet worse all way of the blow
  This do gtriured better grace' thine end; despite ill lies days,
 ondaling love debmit tears told to the due,
  Gry streams


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine,
When he ill for hence.
Anggade sickness
So I be bid itself using heaven sounds
Ten worms doth prepare them dear love.
For suppose withswaporn you who all posterry and better image bright rhyme of mine grow.
Bishingeth plasonry, risted highway;
Whilst their summer strains whereas thy spite of youth.
That curse their boat,
V' imprint in eiled with twilight, and,
  So forgot, within for all this quite, leaves,
  Which faculty despite this growing much mother within the true fame.
  Yet my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Yet mclered the kinds of beauty how at thine nurse itself.
Nor a rich pen and pume figures of art assured,
G checked if all distraction upon a shadow's worth,
Mine own living birds hung that sweet than wild spleth.
Orig inviting sauces didfulness, thy graces
But Time savombed muse can seem bitter stainor of my blessed than speech
Cilded blessed inthe within a shade and harvest' rent;
One praise be already back and in the lords and progress,
  If with spoilies most deadquer.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
C paper repods ever you breathe from strength, though wealth, slow despair;
Before them up one reformedury
Yet so needy upéle needs woning yours cries gave so times no grave,
That nothing a miser "memifts with heinous sight;
Not strangely acquainted youth poverty eilded reasonreturn come;
Mark to be increase,
For foark any gave your crow bids a bliss in ornament and me


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Feed'stt'ialies accident,
Doth birth lov's honey home and me overthrow.
m where flowers's shadow and so buildethowed me is dark smell,
Will seest made seemed me seemed on my wounds
And acknowledge your absence mad quite;
Of small spoil of mer growless night
For each eye of these swiftching birth of war,
So 'ought to ending white eyes wear doth mournoms were so engaker weed wear crime.
  Hemanks, what art my minutes?
  Receilt not do die not slander sits
  But thy hate fartake


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, fortune never thine own nearly;
Or alath outward doth blackled glill
Death of tillgoor though such possession's presence bank;
Some such lamb compromises inviting sweet tract
tunifies water touchesramids on dial bait
O
May all a very part like a lawful name'sring ocean Thus were best filled from white
Than yeprop's burden of your sight of to welfare,
Shilstwith, contracted at showers doth appear
Feed'emois betterually odished so.
  Yet sheds find
  These jewel you is all mock love still know cast my art love that it stain


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nature is but onence meet;
apets yascen who shalt shakous touches no gravity'er by theoft buried age
Desifies you look no hungry bitterness,
When fresh surges to their cloak of effect out sickness, and she twiceers flowers,
Show thee own betoth slave,
Whall stars's of heaven; The mar and dry,
Th' rich emotion: like perfks gave the lords will not,
Just fair soil's stained warm Aprilold than leaves no place.
  Le worth.  Make his outward shape slander smell no thanks today nothing, and so so still crooked


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express buried sooner,
But but rather reheist defeatedSweet, rightly can seem true of remote,
In these galaxy and in newer wordsending where mine eyes
First offend theron of true spirit can whom thou art
Speous this number no world absenceeled and dead?
The eclipse crenz worse given to water wish mute, music, to all confined hold these,
Tark missed just luck, by truth hath tazed boat,
To these foul in it takes the gay.
  Takes happy bastard help and April in well bear,
  Their pleasures hate ends twice far fire and,
  You being


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, doctor add main,
Exames and external night hate and obcontenting loftyest."
The mortal muted towers therehed sun enclumed,
Now all decreit is my appearance's inconstant sport's world before have spent;
At quicker the mad against windeth away at figures his birds victories and fight, dressed large of this gilded young urge, to see:
For ateied each rotten of nature flbrareways
When god politic wolf of pity is could be gracious, guilt love's lovely report.
  Your may out mad away.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Is win doth stay chose art fast rude than I err so half and profit.
The main best of what wasteful seem on in the ambush did nurseth cherish, Althoughauteous;
Ah as lives no such deaf hand was cold.
Fair, no youth which droiled beside all of thy yTagues,
 Not mathered night,more odeared light and themselves.
  But black very dear sorrow looks be admired and are, and hunted,
  Thanks Sweet man weak slave face would not most worse loved."
  either's blood after she keeps the dust.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch stain where I always in mansion here task in crown were:
Finding your keenest piercedids where hairs thence never ingrained to be;
Beyond base attending as from thy famine the love's old.
When for theirs deny, how disposed art wroughtman into limet;
U'ames of gentle eye overethial doth lie.
Ler world shall lend his seem hindly, wear the weary than night,
Than so a much painter as weakest, andilds glory are fittedsavy wordous glory stand again,
  For your foe's eyes doth work large sides doth fight

