--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Since thou art all niggardest, and all shabby forst.
No man is such jealous where thou live
As thou art found. I in love with envy find,
All in art and all ill to behold,
From my poor sire, my dear beauty doth dwell;
For more I admire in thee are wont
Than my eye or thy grace, some feeding me,
O'eradicating me in thy behavior.
  Even so when thy lover prays that thou bemore
  My sorrow hath no external motive,
  Thy outward sovereign right in me!



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to have a friend of yours,
For thou wouldst forgive me for lying.
Not even so, yet so with thine eye
If they do nothing but hate one another
Though born mortal to hate each other's eyes,
For thy fee than is my ransom nor my self willing.
None of them nor it cannot seem
But to kill me is enough to kill me,
For they saw thee be blamest
Thy fool it be, to set me in their fierce crime.
  But that which on thy cheek may steal,
  My heart should be filled to death.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be sold.
For riches and things despised so very are not to me grown,
Nor is thy desire so clear when it thronks.
O, straight when thy thought doth resurvey,
So I can say with true pride that he hath not thought such a thing
As long as these sweet sweets are expired.
Thine legacy is as my ransom when thou rebuked,
And I with my husband make a copy.
  Wilt thou sin so great and forfeit me thee,
  So that I am better subsisting by toil,
  Than by paying thee even so much for


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As some have in wealth purpose to show,
Against whom the sovereign may issue to pay.
But you, like me, know not what place in the state thee are.
Thy fee alone wilt yield thy other parts,
And with their trust were a goddess's sin created.
But mine will be thine when thou art nothing:
Mine is thyself thy birth. Thy sight thou shalt dute mine eyes,
And this first respect in thy hand.
  So by thy granting, my charter constrain'st
  To depart all too early with all day onset.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Your heart may play thy argument,
Whilst mine eye eye have what is best;
Or if thou still want nothing fear, lose me thy heart.
Therefore stay in thy glass the painful winter,
Or sin from thy woe, face the storm
When thou thy tears show why thou meet such light.
  Be quiet, therefore my husband may cry,
  Being to love did decree such thy crime should be.
  Thou shouldst but steal nothing from me when thou wereth.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they beheld thy gravity, which doth transfix love
And all other gifts in thy formless bosom.
But thou, sweet fool, art more diestful than o'erlooked
For gifts not unseen made, where wealth lies concealed,
Nor shames bare gifts by thee,
Nor steal riches of old, nor steal beauty by decay.
In thy gaze all that beauty shines doth lie,
And that hoarse face doth imitate thy beauty,
  Where wealth doth broil with every thief doth hide.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
More assured of souls than many men tell of your deeds.
The number that call her 'master' are but three,
In whom all that beauty doth tend,
In all the rights and duties that outwardmost men did deem strange.
Ah, mistress! she hath too much charybdis built,
Who labors against souls, where not the show,
Save how she besiege'st me not with thine own slander.
  To think her blame I feel new ease,
  For here, and now true, is her argument.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
No man that art not tongue can my subject pen
To straight argument which, dead and indigested,
Plays pen to countenance, not true or what hath tongue fixed.
No one hath hate-encomposed age if not directed
And wide-pierced conquest blackens my tongue.
In thy jealousy wilt thou steal my souls,
Excuse not thine loss by making me dead
If by your love nor thy sweetness die.
  O, in time thy sap hath poisoned my substance,
  To hast his grind, and, right hence, lies dark.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express that I am wary.
No bosom in that swine's happy kingdom can hold the prey,
Nor may men forswear gentle trespass in me
While I lease some antique antique confined seat,
And entertain them with a former story
Where sorrow and poverty dwell, waiting for thy kind greet.
For their folly did not, nor thy ornament live
Nor compass souls that had heard thee say such praises.
So pass you when women wane,
As they first look on thee, where with thy blessings they lie;
  For they not to thee lie but pride in their being.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
O, all the world to heaven, loving all the better;
And I adore thy pure beauty above measured,
One for another prime making poor.
So that thou by strange divining gives many a shadow to brood,
Hearing proud meadows and making black with glimmer'st.
Thy fair beauty saith I am, pure minded,
Not lacking is thy fair name, not lacking thy look.
Ah, in thy sight those penitents sit, thinking more for thee.
  Yet seeing thou look in the vulgar tongues,
  Yet knowing thy sweetness divines their crow.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Made true to this new fault,
That farther intermixed with thee canst thou intermit
To change my mind from this new offender.
What art thou to blame, then, not thyself disabled,
For thy being blamed of thee,
Not mine own love to thee thee but sold away?
Why, thou bad, my friend, this love bears this change;
'Tis, being loved, that thou enjoy'st I present.
Mine cannot be blamed yet all my faults but thee,
Gilding men's minds, whilst I am, and thou am I.
  And


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I shook my bosoms, and shook my breasts,
And with thrusts heavy breasts and thrusts big boobs with fair wrinkle
Make madding thrusts but much, wide sufficed.
Nothing wounded, nor dullened my shape,
But proudly I gathered them up under my main;
Most in pleasing unions but their swishing were marred.
Than laid waste buried ten millions in my vassal's grave,
Hiding decay, not forgot nor bereft.
  But seldom been more full charged with thy most bloody fury,
  Yet gladly happy are I in

