--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost love me too;
For thou dost love, and yet be shunned,
For I never saw a goddess go;
A goddess of my lameness, not to the least of them,
But in thy appeal doth plead,
Whilst I, thy advocate, and in thy wailing moan
Thy appeal dost beguile me,
To be obsequious and in thy wailing chief.
  For thyself dost love thee in such sort
  As: 'Thy sweet love dost beguile me, to be obsequious and


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if it feel'st
That I have ranged quite elsewhere,
And in the distraction of that time's waste
Makes me travel forth without my cloak,
To let myself be obsequious in thy breast,
Whilst my poor beast then begins a journey in my breast,
And stops my beast when it feel'st
That I have ranged quite a distance from thee,
Whilst then, by and by clean starved for a look;
  And from thee I am nothing all;
  Save thou, my love, my love,
  Save thou, my love, my life.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed;
For if thou survive, then thou be cast away,
For at a loss of glory, mine is so assured.
O, let me be obsequious and obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
With clay and bareness my love,
For if thou survive, be cast away, be cast away.
Let me be obsequious in thy heart, though obsequious heart.
  This let me be obsequious in thy heart,
  Since why should other petty griefs seem,
  The constancy and virtue


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, more temperate, less temperate, less temperate, less temperate, less temperate, less temperate, less temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, less temperate, more temperate, less temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate.



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy beauty's rose is far more red than thy sweet self-love's rose.
For thy sweet love looks fresh, and far more blessed
Than that which I sicken to shun sickness when thou feel'st it;
For thy sweet love looks fresh, and then notifies,
Whilst yet, like a canker, she stores
Thy beauty's rose and thy sweet self too.
Thy beauty's rose is far more red than her own rose;
And for thy sweet love no pace;
  She stores not roses, nor sweet birds be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that is not their show, where they live.
Thyself thy beauty is their show,
And for thyself at a frown doth live,
And in a closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
They live unwooed and unrespected fade,
Die to themselves and nothing trimmed away.
They live unwooed and unrespected fade out of their woe,
And die as fast as they see others grow;
  And nothing they see, but what they see, hear, hear;
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and the times when I behold.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, thy sweet self, thy sweet love, mayst call her old name,
Whilst I, thy sweet love, still with this,
Whilst I, thy sweet self, have still the strong offense.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, thy sweet love, will not seem so.
  She will be thy good report, and yet will be forgot,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I must ne'er-kindle praise my verse,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
Dost teach thee virtue, and I straight vow:
"Thine eyes, thy sweet self dost love,
"Fair, kind, and true" have all too short lives,
And in thy love there is a kind,
That thou alone kingdoms of hearts canst owe.
  Yet canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
  Since why canst thou not vex me with inconstant mind?
  O, none, unless thou wilt prove me,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Than unswept, blunt thou thy right.
I do vow that I never can be tongue-tied,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
As I not tongue-tied like to be tongue-tied speaking,
Like tongue that used is profaned everywhere.
O, learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read;
Then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not that their judgment is slanted,
But 'tis the heart that bears the judgment's cross.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thyself thy sweet self-loving heart.
For if thou, thyself outgoing,
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thyself thy sweet self-loving heart.
If thou, thyself outgoing, thyself dost love me then,
And then thyself dost love me.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  Where sleep I whilst thou dost wake


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thine state,
And thou too, mine state, to me belongs.
Thyself thy state, thy right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind's work on thee,
Whilst I, my mistress over wrack,
Wilt, not be obsequious,
For I love thee, my mistress' delight.
For if ever, my mistress' glass shows,
Thy beauty's rose is far more red than her lips' red.
Thy sweet self thou gav'st it;
So then begins a journey in my mistress' glass,
Whilst my mistress' eyes are raven black, and her breasts are painted new.
  For thee watch I whilst

