--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Dulling the sight of thy beauty.
The eyes that gaze upon thee,
Beaming thy beauty's eyes with their wide-seeing eyes,
The sad eyes that gaze upon thee,
The sad eyes that gaze upon thy beauty's brow,
The sad eyes that gaze upon thy beauty's brow
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The eyes that gaze upon thy beauty's brow,
The sad eyes that gaze upon thy beauty's brow.
  Yet these eyes, which have seen thee so far,
  Have not seen thee so far from my sight,
  For they


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or even to make me do what I want,
Or make me sick, nor make me sick
For what I want, what I desire.
For what I want is not enough,
Or even to make me sick,
Or even to make me sick
For what I want is not enough,
Or even to make me sick
For what I want is not enough,
Nor even to make me sick
For what I want is not enough,
Nor even to make me sick
For what I want is not enough.
  For what I want is not enough,
  For what I want


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And mine own worth in thee, my love's worth,
If thou dost forfeit me thyself.
Now, to be sure, thou shouldst forfeit me thyself,
But that is not so, for thou art mine,
Thyself thyself thyself thyself's debt.
  For thou art mine, mine, mine, thyself's debt.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet thou, my love, shouldst forswear it not.
Thou art the fairest of all,
And the most virtuous of all,
And yet this, my love, is so despised
That I love thee so much that I dare not say
That I love thee so much more than thou art.
Thou art the most virtuous of all,
And yet I do not think thou shouldst love me more than thou art.
  Thou art the most spiteful of all,
  And yet I love thee so much that I dare not say
      


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy best friend, and thy soul's sweetest hope,
For thy sake I should be contented,
If thou wouldst be true to me, and I be false.
For thou art the best friend that I have,
And, though thou be false, I will be thy friend,
And, though thou be false, I will be thy friend.
  This hope I have, and this hope thou shouldst believe.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art the master of their keen eyes.
They know that beauty doth live and die,
And thou art the master of their keen eyes.
They know that beauty doth live and die,
And thou art the master of their keen eyes.
They know that beauty doth live and die,
And thou art the master of their keen eyes.
  Yet they know that thou art the master of their keen eyes.
  Their eyes do not see thee, but their keen eyes see thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might hold me by the neck
To let me out of the world, that I might be with you.
For her, though I know she is false,
She is not so false as to say that I am.
Her love is not so false as to say that I am.
Her love is true, and I love her not so.
  For she is my love, and I love her not so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy love is my prey,
And in thy sweet thoughts it doth mock;
For thy love doth dwell on my heart's content,
And in thy thoughts it doth mock;
Thy love doth not love my thoughts but my heart's content.
So thou, my love, dost not love me but thine eye,
Which doth my love live and die with me.
  So thou, my love, dost not love me but thine eye,
  Which doth my love live and die with me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sorrow.
For thou art so cruel, my love, that I fear I may not say so.
But since thou art so cruel, let not my sorrow speak,
For I fear I may not say so.
Thy face is so cruel, my love so cruel,
That I fear I may not say so.
O, do not be so kind as to say that I love thee.
Thou art so cruel, my love so cruel,
That I fear I may not say so.
  But if thou wilt say so, I fear I will not say so.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee a thousand errors find.
Thy love is not my love, but mine is
The most true love, the most true in me.
O, if thou love'st true, that love is more true
Than in a poet's verse,
Than in a playwright's verse,
Than in a true story tell.
  If thou love'st true, that love is more true
  Than in a playwright's verse,
  Which, though it be true, is more false.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And my own love of thee so far removed.
Thou, my love, is the most perfect,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,
The most perfect of all,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For behold, the babe is now dead,
And this babe's beauty is gone,
And all her beauty's part is gone,
And all her parts have vanished,
And all her wealth gone, and all her beauty's part is gone.
For behold, the babe is dead,
And all her beauty's part is gone,
And all her wealth gone, and all her beauty's part is gone.
  And all her wealth gone, and all her beauty's part is gone.

