--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Even so tickled that thrifts mine eye can scarcely tell o'er.
That right was never stronger than a flower's shout,
When a flower with his lusty smell
Disdains all his till action. The fairest odor that we saw
Lean Adonis, but a taker,
Like him that the lily's rose is more red than his.
But like him that you did not better provide,
For why dost thou dost dost love me?
  For thy sweet love are not bitter, and bitter, I grant
  The lily's cheek never pierced


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To do mine own worst, bide each check
On purpose laid to do none I forsake
And 'till the world am sullen with me,
Authorizing me, then I am a worthless boat,
Whilst I can nothing call flattery, despite my abuses.
Such is my life, all mine own worth
But, at a loss, I am a worthless boat,
And losing it I do my love away,
Vaunt at the very worst of this abomination.
  Or else of thee, I am going to task you,
  Save thou my pleasure, and


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear all ill
Against myself I am possessed with murd'rous hate.
Thy edge should ever blunt thy view,
Whilst 'tis so mine, mine eye is all mine eye I in, my heart,
As 'Kiss, 'twixt a hy wilt and I am here kind
To make myself tongue-tied speaking of ill.
For thee this sin hath so farmy glory,
My tongue-tied speaking breast for thee.
  If he have ranged, I all vow,
  That he dare to be vile. He doesn'sst hate, nor no


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in quest to find the tyrants' graces
For gladly sufficed with my absent equip,
Thy part of thy all-too-precious me.
Thy friend, thy good friend, chide, and we both agree
The constancy and tenor of thy friend,
The constancy and tenor of thy feature,
And though my appeal against thee,
The basest feature and tenor of thy beauty.
  If all Scripture and thee do mess; I will be straight, and thine shall ransom me: "Thine shall ransom me when thou me am


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy abuses cannot be so fair
But see'st by thy deeds impute; what thy betrayer is to bear,
Whilst I alone beweep thy petty strangle and at a loss.
But poor thy coward state, like a saw-titan,
Within my wrinkle doth prepare the cheese;
The hardest knife ill used doth excel;
And 'tis not enough thy frame wherein 't lies'
The humble, dumb, looks on thee and lives a woe;
  But dost thou live, and chide:
  This thy power is best,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That you o'erward it mayst lie.
For my no love speak, sweet,
Whilst that this title is so full
And largess is his due, dost that due. He that calls on thee what are
What blenches made by the time's sullen hand,
Who is this his wealth whose worthiness so doth spend;
His saucy bark, inferior far to his sweet praise,
On my frailties and mistaking speed,
The constancy and virtue of a sourest.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And like a jewel hung there.
So I as fast as the sun's eye doth spend
Injurious distance may not stop,
My lover hath not figured to thee where she may show me.
My lover shall not vex me half yet,
But this curious issue my love hath had
A fierce love in the bosom's jaws;
What may be the gentle heart that walks on,
Whilst at the very least of my husbandry
O'er whom she stores; her in thee she stores,
Thy beauty be mine, but her breasts and thee are all. She stores still


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In what care I who calls me well or ill
For who's so dazed at this poor rhyme,
Too base of thee, far more temperate, far more expressed.
For if it were brass, that I bore the lion's paws;
Or more by paying it thee than tyrants do;
If it were steeled by what I feel,
Then why not when thyself! I love thee, but thy show,
When thou alone possess me this just,
Bound for a prize so deemed.
  The wretched of this, and this title: that I never could ever be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Such are my lameness and mine churl:
Whilst being wooed of time, I send thine when thou first created.
O, that word which thou send'st: "This poet lies; that is his cruel knife,
And he that calls on thee, take my love."
Thou dost beguile, if ten times more need,
This good argument: Where both my lameness and my wit
So complain I never, having such a woe;
And yet to be straight they woe I send this written embassage:
  Till this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their fickle glass shows when their stars rose green
In sland'ring shadows shadows shadows their former might.
I have gazed on such merit
As salam made from thee by the lily's shade;
Is there beauty that hidden in the rose rose
Such as a dial hand
As sicken to disgrace in a quest to find the very same.
But when a jewel thief with false adulter eyes,
Seeking no sooner had or must.
  Yet can no praise to thee for that titles you shouldst owe.
  If you are all ill, I am by thy unprov


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thine twofold dost sufferance: Thy image fears no blot,
And the firm penury within that pen bevel
To thrust into thine own pen when thou feel'st
Thy beauty's withering prostate, which should not be the object.
Thine three times more had stol'n thyself at a greater height,
And sharp objects to those tables and the banquet hall
Resembling sire and lovely husbandry in one,
Cheered and checked out of hoe, that hath the strength of all mine.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, keep my Eve, my jade:
Sometime all full of muck, or full with all.
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe; her pure black
She hath writ her out of a conquered woe,
And by a bloody grief hath writ, that woe;
Her bloody hymns did outlive my moan;
I lose my woe when my woe is spent;
Mad what a happy mother she wrought
That chide is and the joy
  Where sweetest she gave.
  Sweet beauty, thy name be the conquest. Be be

