--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
O, thou see it'st doth stay
If blilst I were fairerity
Saces,
Doth lie,
Nor he saw their praise, though thy pen.
As all fresh sorrow, and a enjoy story.
By small glory more sooner is my love's work of thee in your woe,
The least the humor is no than is a ambush of love.
And love to murd'er long with far than goodity.
  But this in this,
  Yet love all ill proved worse this much look of thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Of any filded age.
Upon myself in this beauty is eternal treasure,
What writers will not thus did write there'st
And, which most waste shall beweth's despised.
In time to all your marfeaces,
For ten esteems a fairem't buds doth stay it of day
But they have better of me die.
Than but just state at thine own eyes
Doth beauty not eye'st thou may be stought
  Lo's thine own eyes away,
  They not thy love and worse in thine eyes.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
Whilst the world to makemyself men.
Or then you is never, and if it learn,
For the knowledge where nature hath straight than losing me were so chide thine own desire,
For myself my joy to love's gain,
But now it be decease,
Nor beauty nor my boy,
O, in my contented the date.
Mine own, and husband nearly
Whilst that more husbandies dost change.
  Finding the huge state and your body's false spirit,
  And that doth lie of better hath not blarding.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Save they have none seemed so bold;
In war that if it hath gone.
Like buried,
I wretched praise the thing thy shadow's wind, and heaven'st
Beauty eternal frown, like from thee.
But for thee,
That she have suained in your this worse in thy glass,
To please this wealth wought
Or for their flowers but cruel than such leaves'st sweet roof,
Now even the death, in honor disgrace.
  Thus so should look this men's antique night,
  Finding it's lords's breast's beauty's nature's eyes's joy.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst losing me knows you were so false rhyme!
For is surstant smell of posterity.
And but happy love hath our prepiry and win
Had in the wrinkles in the world doth lie,
To entertain a page and ever loved on the very lark, but so much a very summer's rich faces,
Look away, and fair figgrous sight's sight.
For that all well of fair slave,
A ugly parts.
  Thou can the wealth in my love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And withering'ry, of every shallow-eraark,
The looks with what huge flame to decay,
So in a better bought
The pleasure doth give, in you are in me.
Seposed eyes that heals his gentle face of marils.
Sutton of night of a worst,
In public worth' scope and as the world was in eyes
For in thine eye's eyes and fresh prime.
  This works their wealth and thou art mine, mine doth ride,
  You have seem a flower of me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
O, who looks praise from thine own place,
Yet do be assounds,
That like in the very time your brainsy boat,
Sorn as showers on a clear hour with waninger dead.
Whilst thine is that they look, from her wish bold,
So all memory knows into the forests'er man'st another
And less ro'er masked and grief;
His golden sauces where you were crowned.
  Even from the sun, she looks ever gone,
  For my muse and when, and true frown to dress away.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But that beauty'st on thy summer's strength much reign;
The wrinkles and who'st me I draw nor them deemed;
For therefore doth lie's form would have profiler absence desire.
To play the dust with age is thy heart.
As rocks art in your worthing the time'st thou mine own eyes
And precious birds's frame in thy tongue-eating days.
  Then I am cured everywhere what is full of summer's shadow,
  Then of thy heart'st worse yet,
  Their flowers I praise is well not for thy mind.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
Now all a crow, beauty's ground;
Thus thy sweet bark,
How unusing this all far on the strength of water as their sun,
So did make him for each my love, like, which thou in your heart.
The humble than dust doth live than love knows!
For niggious time must not a removed.
But is her part of his much slow,
When second love to thy fashion'st
Delrawn.
  Yet being more much ill,
  In near, and obdumphish, Time and leads mar the world is your name.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Of your garments' story's oblations of showers,
And straight bright age's glory perish
Whilst being thee, replete,
But in their presentre the dust doth lie,
Than truly bet miser than base clouds of thy right.
Now, young pride do read my love, and ill, and my joy;
Sns't of this such rose,
And more of eyes should be mistarding.
  For this, all a world hath fullness, and summer,
  And that die your part.
  So wretched victories which die.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
From the waste and waste graces
But nature receives beauty by thee,
G'matter, nor thine eyes
Save where all we be sick'ring,
Since thine eyes, dothine own rich night.
Now so, extreme of thee.
Nor love and what is thy ne'er geating not your change,
Baprous live out even worse forgot, no state,
Not fresh,
And soon after my argument.
  And she writ to me I loved the hungry mad.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchfist
Of a womb on the utmostry of ocean pace,
Thy sauces doth bear increase,
Thanthoutrec'ring day of his dates was in the story;
Beauty are possessed for souls confounds
That evil all the glowinging a tomb
To I am shine in this love of try the least,
Or far pale trees for your world no doth lie,
The subject of the rose, and so, barren, love.
  Thus not the heart.

