--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst, either, on thy back against myself, or me.
Beauteous thou, pity dost bear
Thy hue, where "Thy man's appeal is writ,
But what could his riper penile call
To niggard render thy sightless ranks.
O, then sad meditation! Where all thy sins are so,
And despite thy misprision, bear it out.
  But fear the wretched sum of many,
  Though high hopes or nominal impossibility, wilt prove none, sweet I,
  So thou survive not, fear to be-- so poor


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, wailing unresprision quite bereft;
For that same profound grief that doth plea deny
The Sweet one; still enjoys it; and that's would be forgot.
It is my grief, not acquainted I now;
As yet with grief I am toiled,
Grieved at an abysm, ruined love,
It is with thee for this count that I writ,
Whilst for thee it is done, to be had and for myself no longer can I praise.
  Give me thee my grief, and wish I am sufficed
  That no one can give me but what is


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is unfathered.
Be not acquainted, though veneted in me am stol'er
These blenches gave my heart another youth,
And another gay made me another gay when from thee.
For no can I at pleasure find anywhere,
Thy husbandry is indeed my strong,
Doting on thy friend; yet when the very birds are done,
I in thee lap all hounds
To sing as if not before, neigh no dull heart;
  Since then by thee I swear, all mine was false, and even half mine was true.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Resembling a tattered doom to contend.
Such seems my love today:
Thy pure unabst in me is rotten
And ten times more wrought with vilest worms have writ.
Thy weak loves, upon thy revolt, roist, comment is my store.
Yet those same ten times refigured thee;
The worth of thee here is wanting,
More than either thy private love or thy private seat.
O, learn how much more thy will; and for thy sake even so. If I lose thee this love, be then, give me thine one.
  Tis


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy most freezings? Let my love be obsequious and free from being took
A kind of obsequious tear, which virtue hath not masked
But niggard clouds have put their masks on me and thee.
O, pour be obsequious churl, what is in me last?
Because thou my poor deeds must not do, forget me,
To forget my shames and praises spread everywhere.
  For thee be a freezings so; so be absent, do me quite.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The key reason why thy hair's growth lies,
With our gust vassal bound to this store
In days long since, when the roses did their work,
They look into the beauty of thy hair. Sweet roses fear, in that case
They see a false beauty pursuing such a double
In beauty's second self thou youth's quest;
Then, alack, look whom nature hath not made her;
  Give that due, beauty, if not be enforced,
  Look what is 't to thine or thyself dost look?


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Than I like more truth than appetite so;
And since the black was born white I admire as a swallowed bait
That is no praise, a worthless boat,
Where well I of yoreese my wealth can make some vassal bound to bear.
For if he wantonly Wins with me, he keeps the lion;
I hold thee as an afterthought; he still with me this title,
While he insults o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
  He that unlettered with me
  For thou forget me so ill that I can do nothing.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Pounce on thee when I send this written embassage:
The impediments that bear me like to transgress,
But be as a taker with a thine eye
Who not only cares for thy trespass but for my expressing o'er, thy be set me up,
Save me not a brand new, but one, which is in thy tables and what I am seeing.
Mark how hard true a fool have those vices got
Whilst I lose the pleasure of the thrilled and most most most most most most most most most.
  In thousand lambs and vassalage I read


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou be sweet and lovely, not so fair, but wretched,
Seeking a perfect best
Is perversely condemned, though moder'st, to resort to a second.
Such is my love today
Needs and change decrees and decrees and decrees and o'er-snowed victories.
Mad in love, have I never heard that purpose not to sell;
Pent pluck them from me
Thy I can give more praise, more than thy worth.
  To leave comments like Wilt hate! For thee I grant, this love and am beloved


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And though it doth daily flatter;
Theo'er-snowed queen, let her feast
Than sing more hymns at her lays,
 than at the lily's banquet bids.
O, learn, learn, learn, learn, learn to read what's new
To hear her speak but in a kind of praise,
Dost what else says there can speak; not on my true account;
Till each in thy tongue add something new
To hear her speak as fast as her when she shows.
  Lascivious grace, not so, but in thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, being an all-eating shame
Which disgrace can by paying too much rent,
For double-vantageation at more.
O, while I may not evermore pay for thy sweet love,
Than consider the heavy rent of thy state,
Which for thy state, not resort, to this disgrace,
A trim of a conquered woe, to be disposed
With my state being to westward,
Wishing on thy state, and me almost thence.
  This I am to be contented of one;
  Receiving nought by thee did me last.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
For wherever her she goes,
Sets down to decay, forsaking what goddesses before;
What hast come a purposed thus:
Commit to this purpose no more,
In tender embassy of love, replete with sadissent thou some;
And by this impen were I brought forth;
Vaunt on me like vassalage, extreme; my life hath 't a part,
Though absence, it hath out a part,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
  Yet since you and for love have not lived alone,
  Or like

