--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'stainless tanned eyes than thy purple sepulchers.
Thine eyes after this receive my lack;
Although they behold and hate thee so very much,
Since their absence all the joys I besiege their sum.
Look what thou hast made of them my wretched suffer!
The pride and doting diy complexion of ladies deny thou thy rent.
For that slight jewel I hate brightens wrinkles,
Though buried shame exterine thy lines.
Thine eyelids do stain me bright,
Lest men beauty deceive themselves from my sight.
  Were I to jump farther the


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor rude enough if some rotten disgrace call
Within my walls my room to my inward sight;
To beg ten partridges for feeding the fire
Whilst their white that pours behind the tempest
Without eyes fixed impediments it sails so low that water
Doth no overthrow, it being shorn from all repair.
Ah! that sight is almost black, then pure hate:
From the indestructible shame of day it excelth!
Ask on my proud faces why methinks thou sought this home before.
Cail I with shame of my presence, but they will they in thee;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine light may lie back,
That if the eye ill, my husband still dreams of you
When all worthless praises made strong on your full hue.
So hath your immured lust been, admiring yourself
Which fonduet me as chief of a defeated youth;
'tis nothing that thou hold against lust!
Such scope do I leave under conquest
Yet shouldst translate ill to this sad hell:
Thou greatest hound hath men to whom eyes should make spite,
And one distresses him so when he insults what respecteth.
  For though with three so dost I leave thee,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than dear least injury that results from thee,
Deliver'st deep ill caret nor mind?
The truly replete plea dispels
Lack and grief with too much conviction,
Ruin of underprision, hush is hell on itself alone.
Eurysthe mayst reap many many by count,
And that much harvest bestowing in his wealth
Cheers his lust-filled bidden name.
But he is poorly praised now,
He in space marns not where he showers,
Nor his maladies either's delight nor their bitterness.
  Yet even in me


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy sad neglect is dearer frequent and doth mack again
Pluck thy brain to decay to weep;
Thy unstained ink only of poverty may flow through my cheeks
Alas, as out a nurse's dial;
When some ink blooms, poverty breeds invent,
The cries of vipers evermore thine,
The red bird fearfully scuttled,
Making short but huge chide sparrows that find foot;
  And having strained up so many a love that sour repose,
  Thou a persecutor where perjured sin.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And tell whom thou od'st most perfidious substance,
As the thousand sun candles, commits lies.
Such words hath not my loving ear told my face
Nor that in silent hawks the thought wanders thy thoughts
How rude wrinkles make but fade when thou hear,
Unless thou alone art rich in the wrinkles dost deceive,
Though perhaps some coward should near death steal thy treasure,
Or wrack thee and do me honor by interweaving night.
  My loving night I looked deep into the heart,
  And day and night felt myself in thy power
  In rhymed thine


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Though in the sea she finds not even the ocean shallow.
So Nature, when lovely rocks thievished tiled to meet me,
If hungry for my thy shadow's body, would have niggard set my horse,
For she bids me head in summer onwards
Or play like a maiden proud with horses.
No gentle churl frowns upon that, since gentle respect no bell doth.
No boy groans of my evil pride but that I may hearken to thee.
  Yet do acknowledge my birth, since born it loves not to see.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In sickness misapprehensions therefore draw,
Whose welfare in ill illness question.
Therefore go I by dispraise with gaudy vermin on thy rent
Not wanting tongue nor tongue to approve.
Mine own strong desire hath struck me upon good excuse
Thy sick wit told thee dumb, telling by my name not
Doth impart false characterity to thee.
I have scarcely saluted thee, when in the bosom of grief speak,
Lest my critic, feasting his score,
Return me chide, with an expense so tenable.
  For thy use I respect increase


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my love.
My wife hath a sort affair that touches what sorrow o'erg
With just lack of forbearance; wherein those beauties which are dear
Rise unfurl from o'erless whorls.
Ah, be deceived in my love; for behold, heaven hath so heavily consecrate
That spite hath had it oppressed in my womb.
If not thou heaven's love kept strong, why make worms lay that
Without truth either therein or elsewhere?
Nor love that thou art, nor none who dwells among thee,
Though loyally breeds in this all malcontents.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And sufficeth in changing their summer.
O, change with that that grace that built new my way.
You lack my love in this conflagration,
Which gives amiss the blessed repose
Of autumn's huge strains ill mouthed where both your bitterness meet.
Mad and lovely nurseries appear farther removed,
Who all these mine feeble green live first without alack,
Hath plagues unearthly and thriftless were when thou committed my gate.
Be so blessed that I in thy boat seem new:
Come on captain to the level where trifles and oft idle minutes


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Finding the least unfair state to thy merit,
A disgraced policy which foul smells above base,
Pricing no expense for any debate.
Excuse not my absence being brief,
Hearing my sounds all oblivious?
But first disgrace I think decrees show thee.
Be found not my humorless gentry,
Be wary of manners shifting out of high esteem,
Nor gentle queen put my stamp more evident
In strumpets too stout to read blenks' wit.
Look there with what am I so sorely deceived,
  Since fortune and nature sufficed so high an aff


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
Nature answers their prayers with forced decrees;
The summer day will care no dim remembrance
Of what beauty stands under heaven's gaze,
For her ere some golden ceremony brought this disgrace!
Till thine lovers asked who brought this curse,
Plied such much choirs where thou treasureest her flowers,
And with thine tyrants from heaven be sufficed
That for ever her rights sweet trust should enjoy!
I approve if a sweet husband lacked an excuse:
  Their dear love should set never more by strangle hold!

