--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
But yet I saith thee were all the blame,
Which love, to be blamed, should be replete.
Thy eye hath a roof over all my grief,
And with that roof I to the grave,
Wherein thou still befriends the grave and I be disgraced.
Mine eyes have seen thee razed to the ground,
And thy lease to my sins hath expired.
  This is but my love; my eye had all thy folly.
  Yet thou, for thy love, didst forsake me and do me wrong.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my friend and I should be condemned to belike
And so sordid tyrant for my rebus
Were a petty graces delivered to me by a tyrant.
My spirit is my friend, full of woe,
Therefore my heart's pleasure beats on this plea.
On this plea I plead that I am nothing more than a lame call,
Mine heart is for love and not fight
Against the tyrant's will, hence this plea:
  "I am nothing more than an ill man,
  Not worthy of pity, evermore."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not be missed
At loss of most change.
Therefore all this, all this is sad,
Which shouldst thou lose me when I make thee my new-found-found
Burden, to be thee for fear of most loss.
Now I fear that thou hast lost a husbandry and
For me this loss would be like losing a lover and
Without loss fear marriage.

Therefore throw the blame where thou most lose,
And so shouldst so much that think it lose thee.
  So shouldst thou lose me this life, I fear not thy offenses.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Crowning thy kindness with beauty's bounty.
Thou art so kind an owner that by thy kind lovest,
That hath in abundance a rich sum settled,
Thy love being no more despised still.
But thou havest thy consent to thy bequest,
And all these sums have counted thee for trespass.
Thy worth, the worth of thy love,
Increasing thy expense by rent and debt,
Is in this sum and this sum in thy love.
  This thy love hath set forth in thee,
  Since first thou wilt most love leave me alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy sight no longer than thou remove'st to thy living eye,
Thy sight now although imprisoned be subject to twilight;
My mind now confounds thy shade,
And I see the frame of one
Which, in thy soft workings, is heaven's ill-tuned watch,
Intended to guard thee from the eyes of all foes.
No more thou infection of shadows hath time spread,
But never sleep's in thy sight, ne'er removed know'st.
  Leured from thy will and cloud of night,
  These as thy poor look, thou it's infection



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that beauty in thee dost lie concealed,
Even so thou, Love, have in me be filled.
They see what thou art, thou art not whit I view,
For thou dost art the true and shining form of beauty's eye.
If they behold thou art the star with beauty's sickle,
They see thee too, woe to me!
Thou art my body, how strong I dearer fall
Than thou faint eye that dost fester on my cheek,
And on my cheek doth devour her treasure.
  But thou art not my mother,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which I never return to forget.
But the mountain tops are where I should go,
That beauty that lives where I see doth dwell,
For she hath her shade hidden in the earth,
Which steeps from the heaven's face the living dead
And wastes heavenly minutes beside,
That she alone is defeated
By heat and cold, or height of night alone;
  Yet all her beauty lieth in the sight,
  And the living doth deny my love.
  Yet I will not forsake her spite,
  And in heaven and in hell I shall stay.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what tongue in thee I report,
Not to slander but to praise thy sweet ill-doing deeds?
Nor do I for thy sake do approve
Thy bravado in the eyes of men,
Nor dost slander me for thy worth nor thy gentle virtue
If, like worms, thou mar'st the worms' brains,
And their bright feathers do strange things well
Although in thine own burning desire thou mightst bring me down.
  From hence onwards I march with thy bounty,
  From thence I dine least farmed out,
  Where, pursuing my own doom, I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my love.
O my beloved, love's true face be of much use!
Hearing your praise, my true cheek make
Be praised not only for thy excellence,
But for thy worthiness too.
O, how thy miseries do me ill,
Till I prove thy worthiness by thee.
But thou art not my love, my beloved,
Nor my beloved's true face, nor my sweet love's face,
Nor my sweet self, nor my gay self's face present.
  Then, please, be kind to me,
  Because here even thou art shown the most lovely


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That made this meditation, the most gracious soul.
My dear love, my dear love, I have seen thee in merit
And for strong love I find no lie
In those epithets that termed me weak, shallow, conceited,
Or rotten the world's most abused weed.
But I think thee so weak I desire thy treasure,
And thy love and all thy fortitude hide
In thy beauty's shapeifice.
  All be happy, all be happy, all be happy,
  So long as thy bad show still holds,
  Love's worst crime is cure not by thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And lame me thou dost mine own self hate;
For that I am this more sinful of all thy sins
Than thy married love, being married with thy husband's house,
Which though they possess all my mind, lose it all,
And thereby far exceed the knowledge of thy part.
Mine own sin is base not upon thy love alone,
Nor is my love committed to thy pardon,
Nor thy worth blamed upon this.
  Thy love buried in me alone doth lie,
  And I will not pity thee more than thou wilt.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
With those hindmost swift paws fastened
Another buries her in the furrows of the night,
Making her rosy white-haired and tenacious,
Grows, but for her beauty dies
In this thralled and muckred state,
And with those keen eyes to one whose swift motion she doth boast.
For neighbraves, even with true love, have no captain
And work for their own ill fortune;
Till they have grew gentle, and thus all the proud princes
Of their proudures accumulate wealth and rank top.
  But fear not, for fear I

