--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My good name, and thy good name,
Thy true love, thy false love.
As in a man I hate myself,
Thy shame, thy shame, that in thee doth lie.
As in a woman I love myself,
Thy shame, thy shame, that in thee doth lie.
As in a woman thy joy doth I perceive,
With thy beauty's sweetness I perceive thine.
  Then be assured that my thoughts are not drawn from thee,
  Which thou lov'st not, nor my spirit's control.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if this heart should willingly repent
It shall in my rage be contented to be gone.
If my argument should be able to defeat
The true argument would write me a happy death,
And I, by having done well, would be buried.
I have none that can excuse me but by words from thee,
But thou shalt be most mad, which is enough to make me blush.
Thou shall be so much worse than to me now,
Than so in me when I die.
  Yet what I lose, all my might, is not by thee,
  But by thy


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might have it.
He that commits such a crime hath as the ear,
And mayst lose all his wealth, but not lose all his wealth,
Nor lose his love, nor all his griefs,
Nor lose his pleasure, nor all his wealth,
Nor lose all his glory,
Nor lose all his wealth, nor lose all his pleasure,
Nor lose all his pride, nor all his riches,
Nor lose all his fame, nor all his pleasure.
  But he that commits such a crime hath
  As many a conquered state to forfeit,
  In such a state that no longer


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As thy discontent becomes more evident,
And more frequent thou shalt be scorned,
And worse abuses blamed,
More frequent abuses blamed, more frequent abuses condemned.
O, why then, even though I am guilty,
Even though thou wilt not slander me,
Thou wilt be the very worst offender.
  This is so, and so I'll excuse thee,
  And be thy woe if thou show me wrong.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If not thou art so weak, my grace suffers;
If not, my eyes that find thy heart,
Will you not swear to the truth?
The substance of my love, thou wilt mock,
For thee my love is so slight, so low,
That it can but live and die in me.
So thou art my sweet boy, all like that which is in thee.
  Then mock my name when I swear it,
  Even to myself, that in thee I am made.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that thou shouldst gain an abundance of it.
But thou thy blind eyes, beholding not thyself,
Thou blind muse of mak'ry,
Who, therefore, with thy beauty's frailties and thy fair countenance
Supposed no beauty other than thy false self.
Thou art the art of many, and for thee I muse
O'erthroned not thy worth nor thy worth's worth's name.
  For that thou art such, it is not my matter to dwell on
  If thou art so blind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For example, her mistress might make you some living
Even if you were her mistress's child.
No, her mistress makes no ill,
And every love she touches finds a treasure.
But though she beauteous, yet not so,
For love's good sense and rank beauty is not so strong
That I with her be thought untrustworthy.
  But I, a straight woman, be endowed with tenacity's edge.
  Being wooed and wooed with your love,
  You, my love, be contented no more
  Than that I in your bosom might


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Excuse not thy pen, nor thy dear heart
That the deep grief that my grief may well grow;
Thy crime is thy willful ill-doing.
For thou art so kind as that I forswear,
For being absent from thy hymns,
Or, being with me, of thy true love.
Yet thus thou art, how some vulgar say,
Thy glass is not glass, but thine.
  To hold back my grief, therefore, I call thy name.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much discontent.
For if any ill fortune be could,
Hast thou alone, being so fond of fortune's fair
How oft to my hungry ear
And drown the sea's gold in a vat of rotten brass.
O, be assured of that. I will not find
A rich antique for thy worth,
Nor evermore live to see the day that thou shalt win.
Thou art too miserly for that, being so fair,
Not to blame for thy neglectful manners.
  O, strive to make an antique,
  That will my neglect and waste not time.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that thought that thoughts should compare,
And that they should meet in my hate,
Sufficiency, too, wanting in my heart. For to thee I so far exceed all the rest,
And all the waste of time that I could do.
Thou so grossly wrong, so grossly untrue,
That I have yet to suffer with thy crime.
But no sooner do I plead my love out of my gazethought,
Thou so grossly false, so grossly false,
Thy crime hath already ensconced me in this hell;
  So I am done, and I shall


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy own state, being for thyself so far removed,
Hath a kingdom in thy beauty but too short.
In thy love of others thy virtue hath died,
A true love of thyself so much enlarged,
That by thy addition thine own love hath made.
O, but when thy beauty hath been eclipsed,
The world's tongue in thy verse calls thee beauty's child.
  Sweetly thy beauty, saith thy tongue,
  Wishing thee virtue whose sweetest love so strongly
  Makes thee so strong.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, heaven forbid, this child of mine
Doth not leap the gates of heaven,
Piercing the ere she falls,
But doth bow to her for help,
With a rude vow to break that which thine eye
Hath leapt on.
Thine eye hath not crowned the blind,
Nor hath this mortal scythe crowned the lame;
But my love's beauty in thine eye
Doth shine in all the night,
And to thine eye, all the day, all the night all night's day,
A treasure thou mightst have if th

