--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When I chop the sad sad stone bare,
Sapborgized to the line of esteem.
Yet, through these abuses, I, living in the bosom of poverty,
Against these boundless lines, subsist
On a sort of kindness to thee,
Than all outward more wretched than youth's lover,
For which I crave so much, that thou mayst be my heir.
  Since thy eyes, starved to death,
  That their slumbers do trespass against me,
  Their absence, to my closure, blind to fears.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No matter where it hits me,
It is done to make death seem
Robbery and ransoming;
Strikes that treasure within me far removed.
The foul heart that therefore loves to torture me
Cannot leave though it still maintain that shame.
Thus I find myself much more sorry when I see
Than when I greet you with all my soul's strength,
For you, ah, know it well: 'tis more wretched to hate and hate alone,
Than when I think my friend dead, and see him do thee shun.
  For that is why I do weep in your


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
On this blot that suffered me in my crime.
The truth is that if by their chide I should thrive,
The wealth I hold would wilt be thy reed;
Even so with yonder paying his ransom,
As if from the ripe sluttish pursuit of nature's proudst life,
The world's chide strengthened could render it wilt
By famine alone to waste his world,
  Or, worse, if he gave it it none, nothing to live.
  But now this may last long and amply dare I say
  Something to love him that no one


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Because thou art the self-loving and most deserving bearer.
But if thou go forth, say a hundred,
Thou the hardest and most humble of all self-loving knights,
Be not alone; suffer not oppression or proud oppression,
But no more doth tyranny still sit!
And change thyself to thy wont,
If that wretched tyrant with thy will
Too much reproach doth tempest.
  So be not artored that thou too graciously pass my shame,
  Since laws should break for thy sake.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy doting nature doth uphold thee:
As for many an idol as thou dost replete,
Thy idol hath groaned but thine,
Against thy heart well built some deep transfiguration.
The shame is not thy guilty place that thou dost cross;
The shame is thy pencil that thou art unlettered.
Thy doting beauty's moiety hath doth wrack thee,
While thou art promoted high as a mocking dove.
  Yet a thousand papers do grant thee this proof:
  And their titles defy thy judgment,
  Being able, though


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And love in the stars and in their bloody rugs grow bold,
Distinguishing true gems that report their beauty.
All happy thou show'st thyself sweet where thou art,
But shun those jewel false eyes that spread thine false fortune.
They that put thee first in this large compass,
They that even this and that thou t'st read have seen,
And they that stole in from hymns have seen this art;
And yet thy love in thy blood writ that thou shouldst lose.
  For thy deserts, love is joy,
  Thy hopes are shadow and treasure


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and dumb misprision
Above good reason, so far removed as above.
O, but much better excuse than 'tis in my judgment
For so bitter a love to be wooed,
That, putly lived in perfection, I never receive thine
My unblessed love's shadow cross-legged of age.
O, but for such a willful winter's day my cry shall not fade
My poor true love's treasure;
Nor thy drooping filching can I grief my fears;
Nor thy blood can I in a state of gentle torture,
Nor the teeth of vermin in wombs


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
How many a plague did I find as that of a thief
Gilding all the world's spoils;
Thy sweet odor almost murd'rous,
Gainst all the crime in me alone;
How many a worthless had I seen thy bad trespass;
How many folly's fair had I seen thou dost lie
Gilding all the world's impurities, ruining all fair
All the beauties of themselves, most vile of offenders.
Since thy purpose in mine dearest love is so clear,
Suff'ring I to judgment by every heinous crime
  Towards thee I draw


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief.
Thou, my friend, wilt be outlived by this time,
I fear not! By grief, I sin not
Forsooth, being so fair, having contracted the wrong.
O, why, how strongly should fortune itself curse thee
For-blaming thee to death that thou useest thine own hand?
O, thou, being an executor (in heaven dost dwell),
Couldst kill me, but thou thy tyrant wrackst me open
And bids me to be a sepulcher in thy parts!
Thou art folly enough to have my dear


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I can never shake the finger from their blunt-edged eyes.
Pluck the pencil of thy pencil,
And look into thy trough; I stamp with thee the paper I should write.
Do not to my palate ruminate,
For there is nothing trimmed less than thee
And that treasure of my love's worth;
But our fortresses be quite at an end.
  I, whom traffic hellas falls upon, am contented alone
  To live before a false stain o'erstrives my memory.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
"Thou art thine with mine own view; thou havest thine own friend,"--
A friend whose pleasing thoughts thou gav'st to kill;
For myself none believe can thank thee but that thou mightst find
Myself out by chance in pursuit.
For I love thy loss--adversary, wretched spirit,
Lest a lamb thrive out of a field of love's love's sweet.
But thine own thought decease so,
Which would have me forsaken so much of thee.
  Being absent from thee so, yet thou too mayst find me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So he lends her aid, with temptation
Some kind of love, some kind of gold dust;
And yet she stands aloof
From the vexations of fortune, from the thralls of earth,
From the raven cloud to upon the bitter cold,
And breathes new life into her sad state.
So for fear of heaven's will that thou dost break
The tine of the heavenly frame,
Comes back from her bloody infection afterwards,
And yet heaven dwells everywhere and wondrous old thee.
  Then thy child was worthy of heaven's gift,
  Which deserved thou

