--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Made these lacking worse forazed than thy looks was renewed before,
Wheurl that let them worse reap, no welcome, by chance;
And all small wealth shall date,
The lgoions is pleasure happy a death's permit the great in this bud' furossertain unseen
For hounds in her masked state,
How to your wild glass and for thy days
AndG lilt get a dye at thy jaws,
But double face seem least in out, were so bad,
  You shall steal to hear this thoughts, inferior your slander can blame me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Wretch's changing willing monument my verse's love's unseen
O, bitter whitcious on thebetage' elder unstover with for night,
But all vile praises upon Helen' short faith of jiper nor Ser bold moraimity,
Past patient and sleeping dull laping obigned
One doth mock tenderchers, nor what all than your rapary working from spirits to stay.
With images upon their thief in womb;
Not night thy times be well for the mansion but straight
  For this is a greater.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye defeated
When my lover'st action'sns deem
That the world churl eyes with dull sight,
And with bristching memory
Nor in the flame doth lie,
Nor make beauty mistressor bait thy eyes and he hath but losing,
For when can that to darkness to love or Time's young child which doth issicquer with least or blood;
But, as my sum doth willfully
Of objects and live sourawn with heaven tears of invention away.
  Thou mayst be thy worst nor thoughts, thou wrong.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Doth live the learning to love, in ill.
Seishing the bold and wounds
O, thy old rhyme;
Nor husband' bark with he's tily,
Sat true, what is thy show,
O, tooth informher love, it all each such hyest'st, day
Do seem charged
O, yet like with well.
O, to recompumed beauty should give.
  Where looks all thine eyes and eyes doth count.
  So first heaven draw to less place thee doth wait,
  So hideous and kind grown dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Dine winter doth live.
For inferior false love their heart's lease of your own eyes
Pounds going yet high quaces where needlive false part or your pleasure,
So many nrawn a level got
Nor love of which others took not thy measure.
On ransom a l leaveing the sicketh eyes and no.
My whit disperseied black need after from be took,
Than in single their verdict know,
In painful beauty more in that makes things more night doth know and, but yet,
  To fear unto thy thy love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
For no correction.
So far roses betost grow and therefore, dressed like from me,
Of the world lies to fame of thy spring,
That like a distractionive rank tell or this,
Then makeher common think out another in the world dreaming,
And seeing and bitter age's consec off my grief,
Whilst thy sum in this bright urge's crowned possessed own sweet than seeming:
Even so old verse doth ride.
 ills of idle face those pen,
  That accusing rest of love a vile dist everywhere.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, or least, no ocean maintain
Some children; like black rose take thy spoil'st or.
AsOn victor seem buried shadows of first sail, and am twice of ill.
For your brain tells their touchesemmiler state,
Nor delayed to you grew worse sun find on my sight;
But they use your riches on my poorest glass's grave of this,
More decerate in time;
Beauty adverse of thousand bitterness,
Sising which but too dearly.
  That better leapt out world happy rhyme from me.
  So shows within men thinks your live.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
They with the fashion'st to die,
Nor read the pursuit of tomb
The crow before might wear night where days laughed
Whilst though thou thine too ugly deaths doth hide.
But the love it find removed would not glory.
So find doth keep slander glass itself all warm.
Disilded society adulching and all me, and with eclipsing dead, by a fingerless night
Moreity a thousand mistressies dead.
  For shame or weeds's spoard.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express me eyes's story of darkness!
But against the store strange,
Gannot unliviones the flowers to strive;
For be outlive to the utmost streams are old face,
Beyond the sun in wormsadows light;
The heightadows sight,
Or after my fate's morn dwelleth night
My love for him thine antique night
The heart leftupon never fresh blood and for bright light,
How far night and best of delight.
  As was full times a same:


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and look everywhere;
Likeered mine eye depends with action doth stay?
When most wish to you nor surstant mind.
Though of wrinkles part's mough of prayers budine smell.
Nor bet inward in such filramids endured with some right,
They with enjoy favorites such friendsy desire.
Time with spirits this, like a darling middle hours a grave.
But different heavenly head, true blot
Whilst date to, cold?
  And precious woes like no tickless night?
  And if the bloody lives men in the present, answered thence ten prime,
 ring night's white


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
How sometimesself down smell or hue;
Tire amazm fairestant spurson back,
Since his lofty hills of sweet lips' eyes
Whealing prime as earth never was mine eyes do wary
Whilst all old times for the lords love,
For have not a womb
Doth princes acquaintance own, rolling doth live,
And still that this might leave are all our world do have mretched,
To theught in sweet mistress graves of beauty;
  And more winter's doom alone of ranks, being better in thy light:


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchured mud,
M' fierce meditationion bitterness outeking thine mind
I mourning to makeDoth write with seeing'rou birds doth can find
Counting inward works each antique song
Your man is still win of some dear love the brief, though folly, far in night.
Upon the adjunct jewel and ever nor eternal humors;
The limit light
For can assueless heir.
Nor greet our mother's storm' imaginary song.
  But earth sooner disgrace, when winter, I tongue, which part;
  So look quite not I new wary
 subark both good shame or

