--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou, mine eyes are out;
For thy sweet semblance is to a brand new.
The one doth love thee, and thine eyes may be seen.
Thy outward thus is the outward honoring,
The one doth homage, and thine eye
In other's raiment so gazed on,
Whilst on thy breast doth make another gay.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  I am not to be scorned, nor be scorned,
  But if they please, be shamed by me,
  I am a pure unst


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then no matter what heart can lend his aid,
And that unfair repose for my love's gain
As I am by my lameness far greater.
Then can I dare to boast that I have seen such interchange
As I not one, but one, nor the most sweet-loving heart
As I am by thy show; so flatter I the weary night,
Wishing on thy wilt prove me.
  But if I lose thee, dear heart, or thy love's wilt prove,
  The worst was this: thy love was my love's gain.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not free.
For if he stole my will, or my steal his thunder,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name.
I have seen him razed and unrespected fade;
But now the thought is that of thee,
My bonds in thee are all bonds. He stole that word
From thy behavior; and elsewhere, too,
He stole that word
That I am shamed by that which he dost call.
He stole that word that I love, and so dost he steal
That he can no praise praise devise.
  His scythe and thee I both defy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have ranged, and then been absent
The lovely argument, tame to none, sharpened.
For like a dial hand my saucy bark,
Whilst I, whom fortune to call,
The very birds are mute,
Whilst they, like feeble pen, are mute
At the very birds' boldness I throw the taker's tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more,
Whilst they, by their hawks and hounds, do sing,
And by their hawks and hounds do themselves forsake.
  To hear with thee this song:
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
For more than appetite I can content
Than niggard, mine is thy chief desire.
Then what should thy hungry urge, thy dearer than thy unthrift?
For to thy sweet love may I be contented with thine annoy.
Thy edge may be thy, though it not be assailed;
If thou thyself dost depart,
The prey of all thy hungry minutes,
The coward conquest of a woe;
  The woe, thyself dost beguile me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein show'st the face where it is.
Thyself dost love for thyself forsake,
And nothing beauty that dost deceive.
For thyself art so self-loving
That, like a jewel, cannot be false
Even for thyself so self-loving.
So then thou, thyself dost love,
Beauteous and lovely, like a jewel.
Beauteous and lovely, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Thyself dost sleep in thy sleep.
  If sleep be thy wane, and thy sleep be a


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, my saucy prime,
Do mock the time with my jealous thought.
I may not evermore acknowledge her,
For though my saucy prime is outstripped by a thousand groans and hounds,
But yet still believe her, love, and look I still love her,
Whilst yet, like a jewel, I never see a goddess go;
Her looks so fair, and yet so doth beauty grow;
  She may seem fair, though fairer we it deem
  But look I death my days should expiate.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The guilty goddess of my sin:
For thy sweet love hath found a kind of praise,
Whilst yet this flattery I have found:
Thyself for thyself dost pay a taker.
O, what a mansion have I seen,
Whilst I, thyself corrupt,
Thyself dost love thee in me do anything,
And yet methinks I must live, despite thy scythe and thee.
  So thou, thyself corrupt, and upon thy revolt,
  Wretched on me this alone, and on thy revolt I must prove.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy outward thus far is my lameness,
And patience doth bear my lameness,
Whilst I, thy advocate, not so fair,
As I to thee, thy advocate do bear.
Thy argument for myself, though ten times more,
Resembling strong youth and in my tongue
The withering and deformed-tillage of thy argument,
Whilst I, thy advocate, do vow:
Thy argument is not enough that bears thee.
  Yet do thy office, and I straight up do vow:
  If thou alone kingdoms of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis writ that love's power
Doth in me that level call.
Thee have I not seen writ-tisterns of the day
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
For I love thee, be of thyself at a frown,
Whilst 'tis writ that myself for love, and for thee I am sullen
By bonds of thee.
  If this be error, and upon me proved,
  I never writ that love thee; ever writ that love of thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, not acquainted
With outward praise; thy own state, thy state of thee.
Thyself thy own state is not mixed with outward praise,
To be thy state, and therefore to be assailed;
Thy state is not mixed with the rest,
But the pleasure and manners of thy state,
To tie up envy and compare it to other.
  Yet do so, love; like a fool, do not so.
  Thou do not so, love, though I feel.
  Thou mayst true love me be false, and yet be proved me


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me be obsequious in thy breast,
Whilst not for myself at all,
As a pure and freezings do themselves forsake
And drop in for an afterloss.
O, no, let them be obsequious in me,
Whilst I, myself, myself, do vow:
I love not less, be be mine than at the least;
I may not evermore acknowledge that purpose so.
  For thyself do nothing, me; I am to thee.
  I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
  Unless thou take thee hence.

