--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Called alms-giving, with all their sum to mine eye.
But thou, sick of this, I fear,
Thine eye hath so gazed upon mine eye,
Which is to heaven a waste of all need;
That, loathsome, in thy sight dost rob thine heart,
And thence thou on their stormy storm mightst end.
  All this dost thou hast nothing but eyes to wish
  To gaze upon thy true self and so surmount all others' fears.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor is it enough to hurt;
Nor is it enough to call a friend's love.
Nor is it enough to do good deeds to make me mad,
Nor is it enough to find joy in a frown.
Nor is it enough that my sick heart should revolt,
Nor yet revolt should my friend do me wrong.
Nor is it enough, though I groan,
Nor yet I mourn,
Nor yet I grieve,
Nor yet I weep so I wail,
  Not wanting my friend to come
  To torture me to death.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
Nor shall my stay detain thee for long,
Nor abide idle for nought till thou come to
My aid, whether thy sickly thoughts or my skill
To seek a cure for thy fever.
My plea hath made this plea my plea,
For he is my dearest and most beloved friend,
For thou mayst prove me decease,
And so be I, for thou art mine and I all alone.
  But that's not the end of my plea,
  For I have but thine to fight to the death.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Lift me with thee alone,
Since what I have all mine, is all for nothing;
Yet more to my glory than thy worth can say.
Mine own sweetness in thee thine is so strong that my will is shaken,
And I, thou mine most pure being,
And thou with me outstripped,
Who, by their possessing strength, and by thy quick control,
Rise up their prize and give me new life.
  Yet be sure, I will not be defeated,
  Even if thou wilt be my lover,
  For that thou art so; I will


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy body's possession, whether thou be new or old,
Makes my heart rehearse,
But that I return to thee,
Thy eternal cold-loving, rich, and full presence
Within thy veins one for another doth I sing.
If thou mock'st my spirit, to thy trust,
Thy mind my sin, though gross,
Cannot be cured, though with thine blood thy part.
No, thou mock'st my spirit, though that rage offend
In thy thoughts thy heart's substance.
  Thy part in me thy trespass,
  If thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And then thou meest, all alone,
Who through thy side in another's dust
And if thou wouldst meet in their sight,
Thy eye should behold a single sum of sweets
That thou shouldst to thyself neglect,
And then blame them for thee,
Who to thee render my sweet self so much skill.
For to see such a thing as thou dost seem,
Thou art that prey of love's shadow,
Which leads all his prey to hell and death.
  And thine eyes that gaze on me all alone
  If thy heart's vices could leave


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, when I waken, did acknowledge me
As a goddess to whose eternal work
I should recount my absence,
Doth but receiv her gracious exchequer,
And confounds my truest prayers by name.
If thou prove my love as fair
As before, that thou hush my cries and my poor woe,
Then thou willst show me love in love's stain
For evermore than a cloud would cover a bright sun.
  But thou art false to my love, that thou bringest my sad sight
  As it were desert to thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My heart my husband doth bore
And on thine eye in peace thy crime.
My love hath swallowed thy treasure,
And hath taken it from thy head,
And there it is but waiting for thee;
It doth be thine to dispense with me,
As thy bad breath is all too quick to kill.
Thy crime is my fault and thy right is thy wrong.
Yet mine is thy argument and thy argument doth prove,
  Unless thou believe it true, thou repent'st.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a deep thought as thou art.
Thine desire is not so strong to make me humble
As thou wouldst thine, thou whom thy enemies' voices call
Nor mine own self-love to love,
Unless thy lovely taste should give thee such a delight.
For, even to thy hallowed-in-tide,
My beloved hearsth my dull praise,
But if it should translate well to thee,
Then have thy most preposterous hours write
Thy most gracious exchequer so richly esteemed.
  For in the end thy words are so strong
  That


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou know'st that every heart hates what it finds.
Thou art my god's child, and thou hast the power of it,
But this thou doost uphold'st no proof.
Thou art so possessed of love, in whom thou gav'st not proof,
That thou scold'st not why my beloved's ashes should dwell.
In him all errors and deceits are noted,
And then thou art my medicine, and his lies assured.
  This physic hath so much gravity in thee that it hath many parts,
  And all well conceals in me this


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And this my love being contracted,
Thyself thy confessor's pleasure;
My love being contracted,
I mend my sins, so thou canst not deny
Thy power, not having it, doth bide thee.
But thou, thy confessor, know'st thou that I do not mend,
Nor desire my esteem so,
Nor trust thine eye that in thy gentle judgment doth hold.
Thou, my confessor, do'st, whether in thy faults or thy strength,
The debt, not thy help, doth be laid.
  But thou


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Now with haste she finds her
In a stormy night and faces back again;
For her, though her chief woe be gone,
She stands in a lion's amble and doth she bow
To a murd'rous ambush, where she must be slain.
Nay, in such trouble, yet so bliss
As thou dost fortify
To kiss her sweet face, to leave her be buried.
  This was my thought; let me tell it not;
  The fierce tiger that ate my life, ate it all away.

