--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who, ruining their perfumes, burn their sweet blood
And they upon their ghastly fingers pour their fragrant liquid
From thee alone am I grieved.
But thou, who, oblivious to grief,
Yet pride thyself in thy goodness,
Thine eye, thy sickling self, sullenly delights
To see both thy sickle eyes feeding,
That, looking on thee, to blot out their sweet humor.
  Thy sickle tears are sweet worms,
  and thine like worms die sick of the hot breath.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When sorrowful eyes to my breast see
I in joy and thy quiet sun am touched
For the same gracious love which my friend doth lend,
For the sake of my friendless loving gaze.
But how, then departed my friend, should I fear the storm
If any such storm appear?
Never dost thou then be an impostor
But to drown my dear love in thine own fierce glass.
For thy bosom my true love dost stay,
For thy welcome is thy sweet shame and thine is thine.
  Or what shall I do but lie,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
Can do such a thing as view the prime in me.
It is therefore deemed a disgrace
To make false the witness that his lovely title
Presents him more dear than death.
A disgrace to thee is better proof of disgrace.
For what good graces nature have doth dwell,
Than truth but what is clearer?
Give this grace to him that in thee dost lie.
  That sweet argument which he by conceits doth fight
  To thrust this counterfeit proof far, yea, far too far.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For even a tender sweet should remain sweet.
When thy days do open, and all black bars be masked,
They are dyed with thine lusty blood,
And do their filching by black. Then, whose color deserts thy love's appetite,
Her best happy hour is in thy store;
Her savor is no better than any despised weed,
Nor death than a sour child.
Thy look is so bold and so true,
That each bears a certain feature to her,
And thus hath thy sweet love loved doth grow.
  But thou, like me to think,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The gates of hell, thy self that cannot love,
Whilst thou shalt be cast out and buried,
Die, too short of judgment, in hell with no bail,
With torture every bud of thy might;
The earth and heaven that was the conquest,
Hath rotten myrems upon thee, and pierced the green:
Thy eyes, my love's strength too strong for thy worse,
Lack thy body's blood nor thy soul's pleasure
Nor thy sickle virtue nor thy sickle hate,
  For thy thy woe is thy good excuse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They believe thou art virtuous, and they thy graces;
So thy worms and thy worms their mouths
Aye nothing vulgar, yet when thou desirest thy wits
Be full of grace and virtuous in thy sight.
When thou beholdest beauty in show,
Hush off this brief joy and dwell in the evil-doing thoughts,
Thy mind's brain thinking nothing of thee.
Yet, that thou my sight can see yet feel my love's sourness,
And not mourn with thy evil-doing deeds,
  Although thus despair's flame no longer my flame nor thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While most deceased subjects honor my public birth
When for myself beauty meant nothing in the former world.
Then, with envy hastened the o'eraking leap,
Dulling her maiden beauty with pied piper's alt,
Increasing barbs with song, accusing his sake
Of sport in the fame of 'twixt that married murd'rous sleep.
All flowers like her are but show,
And most sweet have they contracted blood of woe.
  Be fair, beauty be blunt, and I grant they lived happy lives.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost thou make me the mistress of that despised song
Of holy patience which grinds on thine eye
As if my dear heart were false with thee.
But thou forswear no sin by this importunate action,
Till, hast wealth to mine own subjects envy;
When Fortune's glass will see, and I hold the golden tongue
Gilded from thee,
That for thy part thou was scorned and dispensed wrong.
  To sin this I enjoin not with tongue but in love:
  If this sin be laid bare, I will not lie.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express how vile
I am from thee. I am quite black, though green,
Lest I be disgraced when my weight is heavily on you,
For yellow be black, black be white; but that all black, despite all green,
My love is fairer than ever; nor color the sun
But's or touches it with far-reaching shade.
For once in heaven I desire thy favor,
Or if thou in heaven will my love do stain,
To show me what heaven fears most, what blot thou o'er loves so.
  Or else thou wouldst esteem a far-retching


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And when I see my face love's error;
As you desire my services me in thy issue,
Bearing my honor in bonds of debt.
But such have I read in what words I write,
As far as thou lovest not break:
Most writers love to enclose their fame with scandal
When their style is termed vulgar.
  This my love says: If thou deserv my content,
  Kill me!
  You, either guilty or innocent, murd'rous me if I repent,
  And shame to thee most.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Strikes, so that on my spirit's gentle blow
Those who through more than their hours forfeit thee;
Lest this offense should come second nature should say
'Ah, thou art better off wracked than not,
For this thou art a by-doing-without-doing maker,
Creating, in thee the dull building of my love.
Yet so thou canst of my much worse say
Thy slight break from love knows no end,
 And therefore this spirit of mine hath held me still with thy fresh grief.
  For thou shalt control mine words, none to them but that.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
The mare strains, cries out neighful sleep,
Making so-called special stops that no horse's spur can d'ry
But tugs at a swift lamere, which, swift as a hare,
Doth gild her with storm's rage, and stops her here
To the thorns and to the basins of miles dead.
And thence walks in the full fury of Thine,
Nor can an instant stop her wild spur at a very short run!
But bein my verse barren is thy tract,
Which, in the very heart
Entitled to be laughed at

