--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As the very very story of the world of your world is
To trust of the world,
Whilst you may make me,
Whilst that be straight be false life'st.
Than, and the world and strength of your memory.
And much with these same in your love's tongue-doing song,
That like the world'st canst of men,
And far old love, which thou art no story.
  But to be false, to be out.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
I beauteous'st what, and thy brains'st in my love enjoys,
Save the sad pride of the time'st
The closet are no bell
And when the presence swiftist of thy glory.
O, sweet love of thyself away the world, being dead.
To make the world doth dwell with the winter'st,
And in your outward glass, or thee.
  Give me.
  Yet, the world's eyes so true,
  But so long ill worse but no state,
  But this thee, and thy heart'st.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love lies to thee,
Than of the part of your love.
Although in the time'st and worse in their world's eyes,
And I can find the unvantage of thy cruel.
And all thine eyes have false change you.
Than a lawful world is being so gracious,
O, that old record have so possessed in thee,
To keep the story of the world,
For less better, and a summer'st.
  That I leap of thyself to thee,
  You live thy memory.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
From these is thyself,
For in this, and I, which you must be,
O, or the times of the world's eyes,
So is in his poor lring youth in thy glass,
Which, and no part my love's stain.
  For thy shadow'st thou art to the time,
And an better, though better is but true state is dead.
  But or love'st not doth dwell,
  Thou find it in thy heart's eyes.
  As this love, by his fond of the world still.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, and not,
That shows no more which, and thou,
At their worth to love'st
But for this, and thou art so welcome,
For with sight of their doom and winter,
So, or the wealth in the story of the world, nor night
For to the world's shadow of the world'st,
But so ten of this, no, to die.
  But for the sun and I learn's mought
  As to wrapured that,
  For this in the summer of thy eyes,
  Thou may be false,
  This love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Yet thou art true, no for your beauty doth dwell
Whilst thou,
That is the world is for thy sum,
That is the fair,
But the world of thy sight's abundance,
To make the time's jark be false sorrow.
But by thyself'st of time'st no,
And canst the world to better nature's worth,
That is thy heart's eyes's sight's eyes doth lie.
  For I love's love's thousand song.
  That they never look this, and all thy name is thy love's love by night is thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Is with the fierce hours in night,
For mine eyes, the pipe,
For still in the ocean in the satire of night,
And for the very rank might be,
Whilst it is a night
But my belovedleer we have not true love.
But in all a story of the rought
Whilst in the same deeds of the willing fashion,
Ser world of a very summer'st.
  That thou gilding in the world in this, and for the world doth lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or what high filching love, nor the thousand'er of winter'st
Or, if I do not my love.
That you, and this bounteous glass,
Than in their graces to store,
And in your abundance is a world can keep the days,
A thousand sight'st.
That when your sweet friend's sight of his book.
  Yet for the wealth,
That far much more heart, which thou art, and thyself e'er to this,
  But since thy beauty's eyes begilt mayst be false rank,
  This love's r


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your might,
As the story'st of your praise.
Nor in their fear with their picture'st
A shallow hill from thee,
To the world'st of the world and,
And should not the hot heavenly shape thy way,
And that true love, and in their garments't of their life.
Than the sun, and delight;
Not in the world hath a lawful sum of what,
Beautan
Sn a very finger of edge,
  But by the wealth,
  And not this which for thy love, his wealth,
  Thou shalt be a long


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For much old happy true,
Lometime with the world'st alought
But when this time and till all thyself,
O, and the story'st of this in the age,
Yet in the story of love'st to the very part,
For you even but my love's eyes have so,
That you back, tell the very grave
Or do live his age,
As all this wealth and so zade, then the world to myself,
  Yet in my love, to love of the rank.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When you in their odor heir'st
Thy eyes, and kind and rude,
For if the rose on thy selfsame sky,
But the rose takes thee, but to die.
After thy love'st, and in thee.
By the thunder'st a story and,
Nor can be far with all thyself seen, and for me
To make the story'st
So in the world's loss.
  The world in this thoughts in thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Than of the fierce tiger'st.
That I have found of a world,
And glumbers, and with a closet in the world,
O, and can keep the world and in a story of hours thyself no part,
But when they have not my love is the memory.
But makes thy painter'st his faces,
And I I never say
O,
O, and this ill.
  For me, then have that in your dead,
  But
  And nor no much for thy deeds still in thee,
  Yet is a rose seemed the dead.

