--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And yet thou, mine eye, is their most tender witness.
The eyes of love do not love, though they see thee,
But they weep and look on thee,
And I love thee in all their glee;
For their griefs is my grief, and I hate thee so much.
Thou art the eye of thy love, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And yet thou, mine eye, is their most tender witness.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For when I awake from my slumbers,
I feel the strength of my heart in my chest,
And heart in mine eye, wherein the heavy heart breathes.
When I see myself in the frame of a clock,
Or in the sun's shadow,
Or in my dreaming eyes,
I see my very soul be wracked with grief.
O, look what sorrows have I endured!
Mine eye hath a thousand faults, but mine eye none.
Mine eye hath not for my grief done so much harm;
Mine eye hath not for my grief done so much injury.
  And


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will owe,
And yet he is, all by his own will,
His crowning victor and slave to my will.
So thou hast my dear love for this,
And if thou shouldst steal thyself away,
I'll be thy heir, if thou steal my treasure.
  If he steal my treasure, thou shallst forfeit all my title.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than that thou shouldst take away my wealth,
And set aside my leisure for other works.
That's what thou shouldst do, all-loving-kindness,
Which will do my part to provide thee a living heir
That leads to my love's springy grove.
Mine is not so much wealth as in thee,
Than my love's sweet well-being.
But what I am, thou art mine.
  Thou shalt be mine, and mine is my love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy friend, thy friend's friend,
And therefore let me return to thee,
If thou do not place me in need.
But since thy part is most poor, thou art most contented
To be thy friend's prisoner.
Thy part is the wealth of thine,
And that thou mayst inherit thyself thine.
  But yet thou art the heir to this tyrants treasure.
  Thy parts are but subjects,
  And that thou mayst inherit this treasure by my will.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see what is in it, that they themselves in their thoughts see.
No, thou art not blind, and no one but thy sight
Is deceived, that thou so dost deceive the world.
Thou art the very brain that dost deceive the eye;
It doth counterfeit the beauty of thy sight,
And when thou beholdest it, thou know'st it not.
If thou art deceived in thy sight, then thou wilt be thought a fool.
  For if thou art deceived in thy sight,
  The world will call thee an idol.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or that I may be unwell from my love's hate.
But now that my love is made a thing,
I am in the habit of being seen as a fool,
And the high gate of my love's sightless morn
Doth give my will no excuse,
Nor grieve at my absence, but affright me when I am gone.
Therefore I have, when my love hath done but wink,
Seeking a pardon from my absence,
And hate, knowing my absence,
Spends the time in my thoughts telling her what I think.
  But in her I am


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, pardon not thy art but to blame thy deeds;
I am thou, and thou shouldst love my life,
Lest I should abuse thy spite;
Thou, like my mother, is thy husband,
And thou shouldst steal my life, and I should rob thee
Of all my wealth, for thou art so much better off
Than to leave me alone in the world.
  But since thou art mine, I will be thy husband,
  And my love so shouldst live on thy part.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My fears and fears in a more tender way.
The proud proudest brav'ry hath never so great a place,
Nor can a man's proudest boast so fair;
For fortune itself to this proud boast doth gild my heart,
And I, in all pride dost boast,
Of wealth, of love, of manners, of form, etc.
Yet when thou wilt so call me fortune's shill,
I will speak of it and prove it wrong.
  If thou wilt so call me fortune's proudest boast,
  Then thank me not more than for


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which in thee art so decimated.
The worse of my sins thou art, the more I sin,
And thou this, my love's expense,
Than my own true desire to be cured.
O, why should I not depart from thee,
Rising from thy grave, so that I may return again?
O, no, thou art so far removed from my sins
That I should return again;
Thy scythe which struck thee in the eye,
Till thou return again, and my love's treasure be
Returned to thee again.
  For thou art my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy sweet love, to whom thou dost lend
Thy love of thine own, dost lend thee this sweet esteem:
Ah, yet I shall love thee, still more dearly than thou,
For thou art my sweet love, still more dear than thou art,
And thy sweet desire, still more dear than thou art,
Thou art my sweet love, still more dear than thou art,
And yet I will not hate thee nor I be so sorry.
  Thy worth and thy virtue dost love,
  And to this I add thy bitterness.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For if, having struck, I now found
My sweet lover dead, I would have none to boast.
But that is not my story,
Nor can I boast of this,
For I have seen thee so lovely with my love;
Nor can I boast of your delight,
For I have seen thee so happy with so much joy.
  But this is not the story of this loss:
  This loss is not my love's story,
  This loss is thy story, and thou are my love.

