--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As pitying thy beauty and look whom thou drool'st away,
Save what thou dost lov'st with my love;
They scorn not thy worth, but do pity
Upon thine in me, whom they scornmore than methinks,
Called rude and rudely with thoughts of war.
Be assured that their cruel eyes will tear me to death,
For their eyes have not seen thee look in the face,
And in their no eyes will my love bear him dead.
  Yet being said to thee by their eyes were they so cruel,
  Their cruel hearts were never so


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than even to say "Happy day, dear friend, when thou seeest my heart beating
Against such dread that long distance's length must come
To go that embol'ry with my heart.
Even so may fortune do my dear body deign
To be absent from my heart in sorrow,
For sometime thou win'st my love's love and leave me alone.
  In my rage against this oft am I first drawn,
  Then woe to the world, for thou so beseems
  That thou and thy car may be poisoned.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, so thee, may be
When thou stand the gaudy charter to me.
O, 'tis true, there is no time such as mine eye
Doth see thine eye when I steal his prize.
Now that thou know'st enough, beguile me,
To plead with myself when thou wilt,
That thou my spouche shouldst steal thy treasure,
For by the use of thy mutual aid
My verdict must be that thou didst steal my treasure.
  Yet be false, thou o'erthe best of all men's eyes.
  Take this wretched


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That, when checked with due love,
I should besiege my love's hold,
Bound to the very shore by night and night by day,
Under the control of my husbandry by night and day,
In fairing or by night nor, being attainted,
Still love's possession of thee is no less subdued.
The benefit, and most of all the win, of love is this:
The stronger it brings in the defense of my husbandry,
The stronger she brings him in farther west.
  No more sorrow shall it break my love's lease,
  But for thy loss


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Nativity's image my song to thee,
It's so with thy sound the air goes:
Our days thus prove false, and our hours as barren
As in the gazers of noon.
And yet beauty you know gives way,
And to thy gentle use shall dwell still thy song.
O, thou, where nature gave thee strength,
For thy basest showers and fairest flowers thrive in thee.
  Yet thus thy grace hath played a controlling part,
  For thy part I repair, not so much to thee,
  As for thee it is blamed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but art so filled
With beauty's course that they breathe their deep breath.
To every eye it looks only as it was before thou fell.
To each it abounds the show of beauty
While in them subjects so well made are shown.
When every eye perceives the great windows of thine eyes,
Him one of the most admired knights doth play,
Finding those lines of thy perfect beauty drawn
That every tongue that flies doth love to rhyme.
  As thou but buildest, so shall all the stars wink
  Although none glade thine eye to the hill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that her very cold tongue, or the pen that hammered
Than any other tongue, will make my tongue in love's tongue
Return to thee like to the glass,
To cast that dead shadow on thy flame
When you by thy speech grow sweet and fair
And sing the praises of thy graces.
O, sweet child! can I not say
That thou and all thine in my ear
Have any thought on my soul?
  O, all hearts are false and all you can know
  Have no thought on me but this,
  That for thee wilt end this hell.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou hast but carved a new conquest,
Bound to set the record straight.
Therefore let not amiability, infection, or bastardry come
In my breast through my speaking,
Or else false descriptions of thee will tear my pride.
Thou art all such, and having settled this bet,
Even to the war of thine enemies niggarding thee,
Whose gust is stol'n not to drown.
Duty is not wealth, thou art love's blood,
For love is thine, and thou with love's profit.
  Although my tongue am belied, yet


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much pleasure.
I have not remembered thy hallowed name
Proving virtue in thee in what an praised name is done.
Since, far from being admired, thy sweets have been decayed,
Naming thy fame with such malingered vows
As, 'tis well I straight to praise thee that frown
Upon my rare youth, like a couple where I live.
Though thou shame'st both my sakes and mine own,
Save that my once loved argument hath struck you thus:
 "Now be more dear to me and more blessed be
When I should forswear thy merit, to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou art so despised,
How oft against those whom thou basest despised,
To draw thy blood or indirectly prove their crime.
What makes the heart's plea more lusty,
Or worse than the wind that destroys a boat?
O, that in me for hate against myself
O'erweep when I strive to please thee,
Or worse! what sick tires do I think thou desire;
Thy love in me so strongly, so strongly so grossly,
That it gavs all thy loving, all thy woe;
  And what dread this my fear be when thou w


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Consumed with worms and worms' teeth;
Thy cup hath more hot springs than thy glass,
For if those flame had swallowed thy neck,
Gained by the worms from above,
Thou art my dear tender love, and at thy pleasure
Entitled no form of state, even so.
Even so thy pride in my desire hath devoured,
But false to thee my reign findth at last.
Thou art thou, my dear sweet love, at the farthest coming of famine,
Which to famine, thou weeds the picture.
  So shalt I, fearful of vouch


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With scarcely aileron to her waiting wretch;
Then besiege her with like heavy frost,
And every hand to bail her off besiege,
Though in their dear mutual knife leapt;
The break of thine hungry eyes doth bring her back,
Sucking her to shame in one swift motion,
Steal what treasure of her husband's love lay.
But, for her, none alive can blame their woe
Unless they had their love and loving thoughts first.
  Then, for their hate and their love's sake,
  Their abuse is so slight that in their plea lies

