--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Possessing on a tattered spite.
For whether beauty, thy lover, or me,
Whilst mine eyes have drawn thy shade,
Mine own deep-sinkshed graves where my heart doth dwell,
Dark'er-smeared mine eyes and lips
Whilst I never saw a spirit of newness.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Though like a willing patient be took
As 'twixt a miser and an ill report.
  The painful warrior famoused for worth,
  For thee I must ransom all ill deeds.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Lest I be cast away, if at the least,
Be taken to my bed and do not drop in sleep
Wired with death and all the world away.
This sad thought kills me that I in this last woe,
When I have seen such interchange of love and hate
As if by some instinct it works on.
I may not evermore acknowledge the frailer knife
Whilst I never saw a woe;
That it works, though it never, if ever,
A closet never pierced with false compare.
  Incapable of more, wretched though not so;
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is sufficed.
Now all is done, and then my love's vassal bound to stay,
As soon as if not at the very least as forfeit to thine own.
Then, if ever, I be cast away,
The coward conquest of a woe,
A tattered messengers to thee I am brought;
Thyself for thy worth do allow
Thyself for thy love no less.
So should by a thousand lascivious tears
Be where thou thyself dost love.
  But I am not shamed by thy love, be be thou that


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
The greater thy power to me than appetite?
Thy edge should all mine be unfathered,
And in mine own weakness seem wanting.
Thy appetite I never more will grind
On the situation where an unthrift in me sits.
That may be my rose or thy sweet semblance to a sweet-seasoned woe;
Whilst yet methinks I may not evermore acknowledge thee.
Thy edge should pluck thee last, my love's sour
To mine own edge thine edge by me bluck them where they abide.
  And thee for thyself do me disgrace, so


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou be a self-love, wilt, or deivor to shun,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy,
The one on the other's neck will blunter be mine.
So thou my great mind, or thy own love, if it alter.
For that sweet favor or deivor be assailed.
O, change thy thought, that what I think is writ,
Thyself to thy deeds dost deceive!
  Where if thou mine be not minded so, I will change my thought:
  The object thy will be thy show, and thy will


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein they chide:
Thyself thyself hath passed through the years to find
The age-old quill doth thine age.
Yet beauty, like a dial hand,
Delve'st the travail of a dead moon,
So make thy love today what's dead,
And do so, love, hate, hate, hate, hate, hate, hate,
And then fear of this, who now is out.
  But thou, my love, not for thy reasons lay,
  Unless thou, no, sweet love of me,
  Since my love


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who in thy beauty's veins thou thy merit is allayed.
As perfountains the filching age, which at the present spends
His scythe and the weary ocean,
Resembling captive to a woe; and so doth she lead away
As perusal puts the age, where she doth live,
Whilst, like a sad slave, I will be contented when she takes
Thy private flowers I like,
And thou, by their stealth may not find
If her, all-too-precious.
  Yet find no love in thee, and yet


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As to prevent thy behavior o'er-tied tongues
In singleness the parts do allow:
Thy dost sing: mine eye is well-tuned
By tongue that on thy singleness addest parts.
To singleness the parts that thou must not sing:
My verse of thee, some fresher learning
Than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
Let those comments on thee that like some,
Not thinking on thy behavior, let them be so rude
As to prevent thee from myself I do vow:
Whate'er thou, thyself be-- saucy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle argument is to bear
And patience, tame to bear none, tame to none, far more bear than thine.
But patience, tame to decay, holds all ill or very well.
O, learn to read what silent thought doth say
That such a beauteous and temperate state
Whilst yet this beauteous and temperate tear
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days
And scarcely greet me with that which I think may be grieved.
  But what's so lovely, if not so lovely,
  Where sad


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
It is for their heart that I hold such strife
As 'twixt a flower and a flower,
Like a vassal bound to his own chest.
It is their sweet livery that bears the strong offense's breath
Whilst the roses fearfully on their fickle fleece
To mar the subject that before, before is bare,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
If I lose thee in this, I lose my love's treasure.
  If I lose thee, thy treasure shall not be my love's treasure.
  The treasure of thy love's treasure,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To my state wherein thou dost abide
A tyrant's cruel knife, in me thine state.
Thy self dost hold me but a tattered state,
Whilst I am all tenants to a house, whose lease is not so stout
As tender nurse her babe babe babe to the house.
So thou alone, mine is in me so unprovident
As tender nurse her babe to me belongs; and her babe to thee.
  But then, if like a babe, my state,
  To be then the state wherein I abide.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I have seen raven black and lusty ere it bevel.
I consider everything from thine eye,
My sweet husbandry glass shows thee where his wealth lies.
If, though at a loss,
Thyself at the least self dost pay
If sain by a miser and a loss.
For as thy sweet self dost beguile,
The only griefs in thee are those,
The pain be mine, but thine shall profit me
If from thee ten times thy worth I can set aside
  And nothing more will by thee; my love shallst owe

