--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I must shun all judgment
Thy self-love for thy right,
To be thy vassal bound to bear all thy wrong:
That am debarred the benefit of many a gazeth;
And for thy sweet love suffered in me when my judgment gazeth:
The scope and tenor of thy more,
And upon thy soft palate cleanseps up his line,
Save ere thou suborned to mine. No bitterness do I do bitter think then
When, tender churl, thy purest wilt do anything.
  Give thyself a grand and ob


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that which I seek or call in my bed
The humble to the riches and me most rich;
So that I hope some shady stealth,
Whilst waking on the very worst of rest,
No sooner can I find a woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,
Possessing me that level the field:


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found.
But, ah, hope my lameness leads
To the lark at break of day, and there reigns love,
Whilst my lameness and tenor of thee,
Cheered and checked with a woe, each to break of day,
As tender nurse her babe her babe pluck her away.
Now with the help of all her woe I return,
And wretched hours my woe, grieve;
  And hours have drained my blood, from thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As with a quest to find out;
Thy edge should be thy right, and thy right too cruel.
My mistress' wilt be then as fair nurse
As any of her sweet mistress' husbandry, though not so happy
As if by a dearer birth than mistress' husbandry.
The bloody knife shall not cut my mistress' eye
Thy lover, though this thy love;
Thy edge should graciously be his.
  Yet knife thine edge should be more stout
  Than appetite, by thy content.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy barren rage shall not defeat my sight,
Look on thy side against myself I throw all care
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Throw me a tenth my best, though ten times happier.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
But their charter is a tattered prime,
And for thy love there is a perfect charter
And mutual render of thee.
  Thou mayst be thy advocate--t strong or weak, though weak,
  The charter or thy will.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for thyself no good turns happy hour
When some part of thee is cast away.
Some days when the shadows of love's lusty days
Thyself thy shadow dost make seem fair,
Although shadows on thee do hush the rest.
O, guess what then- becomes of thee, what a joy
Ere it not that thy shadow shines,
Nor what bright eyes canst thou lead away.
O, let them say more that like of thee,
That like of thee I swear.
  But write me, do not so; let them say more that like of thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And hang more praise upon thee than thou art.
For like a dearer birth than a flower is
To pluck them where they grew, or else they are.
Like a viper in a double pen
Sinks down to death, which now behold,
Thy fragrant vassal bound to his wit,
Save where she lays still, though delayed,
And not with thee till then find
My wit, being lacked, being, how can I taste?
  She stores so, and then fears not being false,
  Since what can can can can can can can can can no


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why thy unkindness belied slander?
I must ne'er-kinder-t lies,
For even though thou steal thyself thou thyself'st me for some fault?
Thine self dost vail me like a vassal bound to stay.
I love thee, my love, truest, wilt be obsequious;
To 'tis and thee I throw all care
To 'tis thee that I bear all care.
  This thy good report, though my weak heart's will,
  Give warning to me that I dare to look so ill


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Than 't'tern is more temperate and less girded
To bitter sauces did I sicken:
More bitter sauces did I taste:
Take heed, dear friend, I am of thee
More strong will be my woe than tongue-tied woe;
Take heed, dear friend, of this large privilege; take heed, dear heart, of this large privilege.
This privilege, so much privilege,
Grows fairer I than any other.
  If this privilege be mine, be mine only thee, and thy will be all.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the home of my heart, as the ocean is.
It is my love, too terrestrial,
Whilst for my love it doth belong to a kind of befit.
O, let those gold candles I not recite
Thy outward is but the outward, kind or true,
Don't mar the fools that do themselves forsake.
If they sleep, and I be cast away,
The coward conquest of a woe,
My body, with my limbs, with my limbs,
Doth take a part, and hath no part.
  The victor shall not be


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
Th' inviting time thy state may vail.
Have from thy state of thine eyes the wrinkle,
And to thy state all is done,
Bemoaned of me last me last state,
And then an accessary needs must be
To find where wasteful Time debateth with Decay
From where at pleasure thou mayst prove.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
What could death brag thou leave me if thou minion of my pleasure?
O no, do not let me be obsequious in thy granting;
In any of these ten times thou art my all chief,
Whilst the world may seem sullen to me
With my constant stream of messages, and thine annoy.
O, give not a zealous thought, why shouldst thou purposed:
Be sullen to death by me that do thee depart.
  To leave some of thee that receive thee
  Die single, and thine is thine.

