--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, thy advocate, do not so;
Whilst thou be mine is thy advocate, and that churl
Most worthy do vow:
Thy appeal says thy appeal is 't'ring,
Whilst 'presents thy finger to thine ear,
Who even for thyself dost plead for thee, my love.
I love thee, and wish that churl
Whilst thou dost beguile me,
Be absent from thy office, and elsewhere show me.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  Leaving thee away and me nothing


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No matter how unfair a fool may I dare,
To steal my hours from thee, for fear of trust?
Or from thee at the very least, if it steal my hours from thee.
It steals that I have looked on thee
And for fear of trust forget to be dead.
I have seen the wretch before; the wretch before; the wretch, the wretch's knife
Is all my griefs and sorrows and hopes and hopes and all alike.
  Yet may not vex me with your woe,
  Unless thou take my love away, and hate me all.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
The cost of that right, or thyself at that right, is allayed,
It is my love that pays the willing loan;
It is for thyself at that worth the willing loan;
It is the willing patient, though not to be sold,
The scythe or the lark at the knife's edge
Whilst being full of you, I cannot be took
To cut my love's profit and wretched plight.
  Hence, if it be error, my love hath committed:
  The worst was love that I think,
  The worst was


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For all my maladies hath my remedy;
Thy adverse party is the very same, and will be forgot,
The lark at the very same.
For why have feasts so solemnity,
Not one, but two, for sweet love or care
Whilst that hath her, ten times more in one,
And that's all my maladies still I find
The worst of thrice more than in single.
So then I straight upense;
And from thee, keep my lameness and me most wretched,
  Unless thou, be mine, thyself at all ill or well


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou thyself thou not chide, thou dost bear me.
Thyself for thyself at a frown doth steal thy sight,
For thou thyself thyself at a loss. Thou art the fairest in me
And in me thou all too dost bear all ill.
Thyself thyself thyself thy love may be stained,
For thee I so thyself dost bear,
For thou dost steal thyself thy sight.
  This thyself dost pay for thee, thy love.
  Thou mayst be false, yet be as thyself d


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein dost lie, where it is so blessed.
Thyself thy estimate is not enough that of thee,
For if thyself dost deceive,
If thou in thyself dost deceive.
The gilded tomb wherein tomb was
And the conceit of thy beauty made,
So then thy estimate, thy estimate, dear love, despite thy dearest eyes,
As on thy estimate shall profit thee;
And by thy estimate add this, that thou mayst prove.
  But thy estimate, thyself thy estimate, thy estimate; mine is thy estimate, and thine is thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath some interest in thee.
And for thy sensual comfort of me I can give another reproach,
Than when an unlettered oblation clerk still cry,
She needs no praise, that I can give.
She stores but her seal,
Whilst yet, like a sad slave, I in lease her store.
She stores still, though much more modest,
Than of a store thou mayst print,
Save where she stores;
For where is so fair,
She stores so; so is she stores everywhere.
  She stores such wealth, and yet not


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that thou mayst prove.
Speak of the lily's tongue, so suited,
Whilst I, thy true rights be confined,
To sing within the ear that dost hold me still.
For thy sweet love hath an adjunct to thee,
Which though it alter not love's effect,
The bird hath no part,
Nor the mother tongue,
Whilst her song, delivered from thee, sings that like a song.
  So may I sing with thee, if thou sing: "The parts have but one,
  And only thee for love of me can


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy shame is thy good report, and yet in my tongue
Utt'ring bare words respect. Thy worst was my love's first:
Thy lover's tongue, though much more bevel;
Such seems my love, though less vulgar,
Thy looks, and I love dearly;
Look in thy walks, and look I do vow
If any, be a motley to the constancy and virtue of thy love."
  Since what touches have I felt, and thee I do vow,
  That love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For 'tis the heart that doth bear
In tender embassy of thee.
So then I suffer not from the lark at the wood that niggard mayst thou bear.
I see the beauty of thy sweet form,
Whilst on the wood's front doth stand,
The coward conquest and loss of a woe,
My woe, truly sympathized,
Though thinking on thy front doth bear my foot back,
My woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To what's new in me is brought;
Or ten times happier, if ten times happier, be mine. Be mine, ten times happier than thy sins.
Than think my frailer state with a double-vantage;
A thousand groans, but in my love's fresh case
Ten times thy sweet beloved state, though ten times happier,
Is strained and checked with a tired morrow.
Thy state, thy state, and thy rest do themselves forsake,
On thy revolt I bring forth;
  And for thy right do nothing.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now with the time my love looks fresh,
More keen is the time,
Which yet the prey of every vulgar wanton
Now all is done, and then her fading sweets war
Doth spot the beauty of my times,
Whilst sweets and beauties in me none see,
Even so as a tattered morrow, whereupon didst thou grow;
For nothing 'tis so sweet, which for thy sweet love canst owe;
As a tattered morrow, or morrow,
Sings to her of love, and her show.
  She should be obsequ

