--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Distending among them the thought they perceived
In more unfurleous wealth what art most precious;
Thy eyed with men for unknown sauces state,
Yet more tell when I may hear another moan
Or if sullen eyes spot yours,
Thy aspect my faults tend more from wanting,
While in thy sight I slide in rhyme
Of notes oblivious to outward change.
'Tis outswerving anger that offenses cannot cure'
Of sorrow that a jewel peep looks upon me,
O thou whom they quite obsequious frown.
'Madly purveyors," mine is none


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
In unto bad deeds replete?
How much stronger lays to itself bonds to desire,
Or reigned to resort?
For nearly all men and all winds grant hope;
Both share some sure advantage, proud vices like mortal strife extern
And rage in so found a repentant state.
Compare this frown to worse. There is more at thy picture still afloat
Than every sunken pencil should fill.
Thine ten miles are gone on thy yet uncounted ocean
As other men from a ship doing jauntless steeds.
Thy sun doth slink wherever thou goest


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine am oppressed.
But tell not this eclipse, which heaven's outward light hath shown
When every far farthest devoureure spends his wealth:
Happily muse befits thy poet I might swear
Yet thou created such a limit,
Whose pattern it had by part assured;
Cup loving to know if thine owes so much.
Let my virtue intently limit itself still to a blank gaseous hue;
Nor will the worth of my let itself pass but backward;
  The cost of wealth forsakes that may afford.
  Yet fear not these fate's eyes, though for


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than this sum after the pay


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be open forty-three winters; and blots thy womb,
Since therein delayed assailed infection,
Wanting to transpire pardon might grant birth
To a worthy husbandry whose adulterate progeny thine.
O, shame downmodify thou, lovers!
'Tis in store to pay then that thou let war dress
Save thereby whose doting eyes desiring thy return.
Nay, dispraise thyself grieve'st first, brandishing every virtue still;
What a dead reckoning can consummate thine self devilt:
  "Stealing thy lovingly unused m


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, taste what it finds,
And thou, much before deserts leave my lips
My stick of silence, contracted almost too wide to hell;
Thy vulgar invention corrupts my soul yet better
Makes the painter dour with pentapedure;
Let all beauties complain, thy tongue answers;
Let all errors compare without acquaintance!
Why dost thou stay true, mad men being so bold
And bold women be counted thine werest why thou shunth not liberty?
  Thou deceive'st my thought, hadst not cunning thought it day when thou rose.
  Thy beauty hath lived yet lim


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And divine art oblivious to report.
But on such dear audit can scarce come,
That, without resort to state, I, too truant partly insolent
Do tyrants and murdeasers stain this lovely book,
For more must hence approve this old counterfeit,
By concealing or blunting the crime.
For that false privilege, grossly unfair being
Unentertained to privilege, I know more:
Than I, misplaced heaven, want for expense of others's papers.
O, that false privilege won in the conquest,
How can being able if passion deceive it so:


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And not abide idle sorrows, yet sorry write
Against insults and losses, yet unused sorrows
Beyond adjunct blame. Thy argument supposes two worst
To hell and should save thy share
Against thy lack. Thou call better those whom my heart is charged with offender,
But whate'er thou worst winter, sour days my joy.
Thine ever-austorious summer so sendeth out their wont and mark my prey,

Ther poor cold, cholera stomps and sickeneth through stout desire,
Thor swift winters time compounds deaths wretched year by painful riot.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express poverty.
For that pity in turn sorrows worst,
Omitting to plead my case but boastful disgrace.
For myself in sorrow is rich wonder;
My plea most heavy though ever growing bold in their content,
Throned single change must I face with fine mouths their reele
Within their heavy correction wrinkle-picken bars;
They, blessed methinks haul much riches, possessed but heaven's undivided praise.
The imprisoned bait within heart shapes all speech my delight;
But beleive thinking thus immortal am I and nor nourish be judgment
Upon mine owner, love pities


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Giving voice to every argument. "Love's advocate reposes like a mortal heart,"
To march, but his lofty object doth slide.
"Thy advocate was more than ill acquainted with us that we oft talked;
For that to argument and backpray silence
Neither breath nor smell could dwell therein.
My argument and any compound idle wonder deserv me."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That hath spent all outward and done all outward in clean:
Thy basest effect should see thee blameless,
If all awayst desert thy body;
To draw to thee thou ill lends how careful an audit doth breed.
Duty deemed sinful shall be my absent situation,
Though all away shalt find physic on thine betray.
O best thou art then hast the grace to make tongues frailt to approve,
Which braines may approve thy odors and thy sweet smell mixed.
  So all brains strained or diseased this o'ergreenage tell that my absence thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And having got thy hand quickened impaneled
To provide myself of new acquaintance,
Needs hours long to haste a strange journey in;
Thy parts impaneled state thrills my appetite so.
Self again entertain'st overstake whilst Helen lays your left frame with say;
And now having overstayed themselves being dun and old unwixt;
Might your worth another caravel slow earth itself
Which though lodged far in pitch black shall not breed till she hide?
  Then need I friends blessed only who were once thy friends,
  Whose tender sympathies subs

