--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy outward is fairer lodged than the riper's rose.
Thy outward is the outward praise, so dost thou mock my sight,
Whilst my mistress' eyes are raven black, and look pale,
For her eyes' due is thy gain thee more.
I grant, sweet love, thy mistress' glass may not seem so;
But for thy love, thy sensual glass doth spot.
My mistress' glass may not seem so;
But when my mistress' eyes' due is shown,
Her eyes' due is thy outward part.
  This thought is thy love


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my heart's will;
That is my love, my love, my heart's plea,
And 'tis for a joy annexed to that breast.
O, let my love lose thee, my love,
And 'tis for a joy confined'
To 'cide this title is impaneled
To 'cide this title is impaneled
And by a confined doom 'tis' and 'tis all.'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is sufficed.
Now I have found a better state
Than niggard state wherein thou dost abide.
Thy beauty, though my state, is all mine,
A quest of all-precious state,
Deserves a tattered herd of horses,
And by limping sway with my state of nimble gravity,
Savage, my woe, my state,
Whilst I am shamed by that which I do vow:
Thy state, thy great gift, and thy state,
  That's for thy state, thy glory fight.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, mine is all my grief,
And I for thee do vow,
Whilst thou dost love her dearly;
For if thou dost love her, then thou dost love her.
If thou dost hate her,
Then do not so; do not so; my love lose thee.
Thyself mayst be my grief, though at a loss;
If thou wilt do anything, I lose thee.
  Thou hast thyself thyself dost bear all my griefs,
  But losing her, I lose thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou were minded so, thy great gift,
And to thyself at a confined doom.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
With newer might thy knowledge, thy pyramids built up.
But then, if thou were minded so blessed,
And receive a double thee.
O, let me be obsequious in thy soul,
Whilst I am obsequious in thy action.
  Give thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That dost deceive them that is not so fair.
For through the eyes of their lusty days have seen,
The gilded honor and proud titles of their fair leaves spread.
Yet this glutton is not so blessed
Whilst all the muses filed,
The tresses and the dear heart are at a loss;
For through the lark at the muses filed,
The injuries and the joys and injuries of love's woe,
And their verdict is determined
  As I have writ, 'tis true, that love's woe,
  The constancy and virtue of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst thou, thyself corrupt, know'st is not so bad.
If thou be cast away, my love will be restored,
My love hath no end. She hath stol'er than a flower,
And therefore to this bitter substance methinks I throw all
As she hath stol'er than a canker's eye.
She stores, but not for the roses fear of the bier smell
Her seal hath stol'er than a flower.
She stores, but for the roses fear her.
  She stores, but for the roses fear her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I grant, love, if ever, if ever,
Thyself thy own self dost bear that title.
O, if thou not from thyself at all, take that title,
Myself corrupt of thee,
Myself corrupt of thee, my saucy bark, that thou mayst prove.
For to love no other pass my verse
Than of thy sweet love's sweet face.
If, be a satire to decay,
My love shall be a gain thee;
  If not on thy revolt, I will be straight,
  And thou stick to me when thou prove


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
O, learn to read what I think
As thou, learn to read what tongue I think
In all the grecianisms that before have expressed.
Thy friend and I at least give them that,
But that tongue that hath more expressed
Than that which rhymers invocate.
Thy wilt be straight though my scythe and thee
And, all in war with thee I vow:
  If I lose thee, thy sweet love shall not be my love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
More in me than theirs is writ.
I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee,
And from thee all is done.
So then I have no leisure taken
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
Thy sweet love hath no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
And 'Tis not enough that time, which now becomes a fee;
If it be a fee, then ten times thy worth,
And for thy love there is no joy.
  Yet love, thyself at times so flatter,
  As I am all one, and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy outward is thy outward self, to thy own self-loving bosom.
Thyself thy image is not the outward of the heart,
And thy inward worth the greater,
Thy outward is the outward, to me only, to thee.
For thy outward is not inward love,
But for thy inward love knows no art
But in thy deeds count all those that use it.
So then thou dost pay the willing loan;
Thy outward is thy outward's delight,
And to thyself at all thy deeds must prove.
  Yet thee, thyself at all thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
Whilst my gentle thought, though newfangled,
Makes lascivious comments on my breast,
Whilst comments on my beauty making,
And from far where at pleasure I abide;
And by and by by comments of you, all gav'st I abide
As if by my unlettered clerk still cry: "Whilst comments on my beauty show,
"My name is Helen, and she in thee.
  For thee, vassal bound to guard me I must attend all her quietus.

