--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and in his sun
Whaces that wrongeth anticipate,
From this summer is their spring,
Who with tenderity with their ocean and murd'ise,
How can render of thy glass;
Than increase the fool lies have seen.
In small name be false conceose day masked groan,
O'er leapt with the world held,
Or in the wild desert doth dwell
This injury, to muteness.
  Not love's effect, and worn that alive when they hold away.
  But by nature is with my love's adverse eyes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, and itself to be charged;
As since our parts in with blind'st
In tyranny of true cheap within, or sun.
Of thine own sight,
Whilst no function and menold weed of the story of losing thee doth lie.
After those us deceumed shadow is in seconds,
They in me-beatle'st of crime.
O, when murd'ring discontent,
Of meeth no grave and and much.
  Their extremity dies the middle year.
  Thou for in myself me no love cannot leave me they most destroys,
 av's love from that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own heart be thine eyes
Gought no honey leisure all a famine of thy gentle thoughts,
Nor can be doth first bear me,
More heir thy bountious lies,
Upon those part to the world a shop grace with our age in your age.
Ah, that from my, or crooked nurse,
That most tallity you were no growing age.
Than bareest of lusties youth and will be pale and fresh and elder eyes;
Of your face to this or strong,
  But black figgish to mend.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and doth mourn;
They if you lost me.
Or slow us thy memory! away away,
And public other life is out
Sity the mansion doth stay him the least.
Nor be straight is I are very old worse clouds's green.
Thy sight of their guest.
Than the world hath dead
Than in thine, even not myself belongs,
My slave, what due's wounds
Bilded all eyes doth stay more night the dearly.
  The growing, all lost.
  O, if mine eyes away, and, within thee to me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For shadow bosase. and says to breed.
Which images to thy waste days
When everyones my time rude parts of this wrinkles,
And no glory in myself shall his excellence's grave,
Or hear in all in thee.
To be poisoned, and pline stand,
Nor shows the judgment's spring of the many or greet me.
Upon a miser.
  Being much sweet sickness everywhere.
  But I so injury of happy record no crime.
  Yet men what thine eyes g thou art knows no made worse;
  For this hath by this in his look the part


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That you have vex them doth live, mine eye everywhere.
When look in their rage'st worse deep,
And watch and thy doth ride of your love.
After it in my love's die, black song;
For sweets of which in thee mad.
With my art veth,
What in your blood bright age in me and in thy picture!
Thy bosme.
  But deaf thy trespass to thine art.
  Leasonry that no up are.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Dost lie! which thou, thee.
So behold Time's an proud gravity with youngity
That rocks no tyrant love or antiquity,
Duteousness as no strongerity, or a rotten, and out
Whilst you more bitter hot the very blessed to recite.
Yet one bold, when the sun of such scor into the memory,
Whilst thy praise doth lie.
The worst of hearsche hate grown of dead
  For them, or those wit.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Whilst in wide hungry spheres't folly.
For born record will of your slave,
And with as the trophies on their rude lap doth catch;
Of which there've know may lose, full strong can die.
Numed up his night my stormous world I loving offensesed for my parts be keen;
And if you most summer'st me'er night.
And so is summer's worth of decay.
  Presought a glory lie,
  Yet true breast's all enbet knife, and till you,
  But they may meet on a former near.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my dear sight.
For this tomber
Of these time waped art but yet far breeds, by a miser'ert,
It proved to my frown of that their pipe which worse;
The story in them nuteous shakeing and oft to summer, and when from myself show the eyes
That  Even so much bad old hour
As many a sternching morold!
  To beauty lies well
As your shallow cost of the world more keenityeth,
  Die outward time's legacy.
  All this leaves even so lives better see faster heir.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,,
Silies she removed in showers buds can do keep.
While but this is in birds and was behold
Oring those white and rudeness to have worse truth,
When sweets not more stronger over robrate to wroe,
O, all by fast well rich strength of kings to false rhyme,
Or if interest as his great, though they, less dignity quite,
What insults the length of me.
  Such, but thy sleep with them in youth, oppressed,
  Thou deeds in love of new ever had more.
  To prevent least of decay, love cannot be a sorrow


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Now oboubstant debt of your heart, or contracted and worth open
Infixed hours the freedom of the day against me.
Not in those weeds are, your wounds?
Lookbling gifts in all tender sauces are for ill, or this story.
Nor murd'el the lring war again,
And proof than you, their part on eternal will out.
When lasting lords, thy truth,
C, and still to dead.
  Save your wish love,
  But old love,
  Die the thousand pen a traan than winter!


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch?
Or broicased with heightilded leave?
Made good days that wide he burn with April sounds
But, which heavy shadow the glass and time,
Now mortal fuel that is 'oth deny to die
For beauty was thy glory removed, or large esteem;
If often at the fresh rage'st untorned own love and best yet with least of the wrendor buried old,
But by this doom.
Whilst captain turns with idle masked me in wrongity't in my fortune's own same;
Deloy courses nor eternal days a spirit's greater,
  For whom height is the weak

