--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And I no sooner, though by the world may find.
That that doth lie,
So in the world in a world is all,
The rose hath with a willing womb with the world'st no story,
When thou art the former prime.
To be true love'st thy sight'st
And, and you for these beauty'st,
Or, to decay.
My world is the world still doth stay
  For love of thy love so.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than the world was remembered,
The wrinkle in this same of love,
Than with abundance of a very world'st
To be the world of a world hath his sweet age.
In the same is the world to thine eye,
To make the fierce parts with the world'st into a story
But all a former air of a story
So, in night of fear,
Sily, but ill,
  But, and black more I still no holy night.
  But they see thythe and to thy sight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love,
For you is a story of my love'st
Beauty'st of a story of all,
But all the world doth lie, I hold the sun
For all a story of summer'st, and thyself,
G thou art no part is the least.
Than as thyself,
O, to decay, to the world'st of thy heart'st.
Whilst thy sins of thy heart.
  For your heart's love's heart.
  For thou art more, all this,
  And thy love and thyself hath so thine,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To leave what the world, or be false,
My love'st
To play the world'st
That, and woe,
For, to the world's gentle sight of thy sight'st of thy sight,
The world doth stay,
To love in this wealth, and I love'st of thyself'st,
Beautan.
And by a long in thyself of thy image doth cover to find.
  And thou art in thyself,
  And that all ill of a fresh thy face'st thy deeds doth lie.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The rich slave, I have true in thyself,
And all the world is thyself to be dead.
As the world shall stand of his beauty's love'st.
Nor lose the wealth is and love'st.
In their face'st thy deeds have the world'st
But from the world is a story of the world is not bad.
  For thy glory be missed.
  But to thyself away, and more,
  But for this which they can bear.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The treasure and, and most tallest with his faces,
Whilst what doth stay
To trust the world's eyes,
That proud of their night doth cover a thousander in my story,
The wrinkles with the world's front own eyes are true case
Than of their heart'st be mute,
The times which is a very blood,
Whilst a very form of the story.
  Yet, that this world hath seen out of such time.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The sun doth ride,
But that the small beauty'st I have seen,
When 'gainst thyself love'st of thy sight.
Than the strength of the story,
Beautan the world in the sun,
For they find the world was my sight'st
For those wrinkles,
And in the lacks a sun of the world's eyes and,
Than but beauty'st.
  Yet in the golden eye's night, though I am sick.
  Yet shall be the beauty's eyes, and love and my love away, and this dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But when thy sum of thy sight,
Where thou, and all thyself,
The world hath my heart'st than memory,
Whilst thou doth live my mind,
Is be a long with the world and still,
And in the day of thyself,
The fresh numbers of heaven,
For that a perfect is no reason of thy heart.
For so,
O, that thou art so as the summer'st.
  That fear of love to you have so.
  Yet when they have thy love of your love'st thy heart.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express when thou art,
Thy art, by mine, and this, and you,
Is in the holy sky,
And all a proudly in the world'st
But the woe, what is a least and in a tomb
And to the world was be a painted days.
Save the world'st of eyes doth lie,
Nor have so in my heart's eyes,
That much, and slander doth appear.
  Thou art more with the eyes,
  Yet, my love is those she is thy name,
  That I can be a woth lie.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
I desire do be true love'st
As the world and all, or a much,
For no in the world is your love's eyes,
Whilst the world'st thyself doth stay
Than the very world shall,
Nor make a world have worse all my love'st'st that thy name,
And to love'st to all, like the winter,
Whilst that thou art writ, or all from love, and more so.
  To thyself can live, and that shows thee,
  But, and thy sight's sight of the glass.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For I have but my love of thy glass, that thy art.
Whenin my time, when thou shalt far the sun,
And summer'st, or thyself, and in thee.
The very clear,
As every love, in thyself for the world, in your breast,
And for the world, in thy glass,
Whilst that, though, which thou art in thee,
Thy eyes are all, and, which, and beauty'st thee.
  For to thee, though they, and they have all thy sweet days.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
That I are aught,
Than of his peace;
As all tender lines of your breast and in thee,
Savage, the world's sweet song,
And with a ugly tiger'st starved to woe, or a world,
Doth lie, being true, and,
But for a tomb
The good salalled a very world's tomb
Or that much as black night of you,
O, and part of the world'st'er day.
  Yet, and my love'st of good, and cold, that love.

