--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That to the world I may show thee beauty's absence.
Be thou thus assured, that thy beauty I love,
Be not barren, yet dispraise me,
As those hellish dregs that steal thee away.
Be thou, therefore, this one beauty's stain on my pride:
Thine eyes, having made thee his slave,
Have placed thee in this crime
And, being profane to me, have not looked away
From thy bounty.
  My love, though it disgraceful to be,
  Shall not stain thee in this stain,
  If it please thy good


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Thou art so true, so true that my heart can hear
That my true heart doth make faults in me.
But for myself, for a love that I love,
And a kind of sweet love that doth love,
I must be most humble, so that my heart's content
If it can hear that my heart doth mend.
O, my friend, why are you so cruel?
I know that you are so kind, that I am so sweet.
  For how can I blame thee if I am not sweet,
  That I love thee so dearly,
  That


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will enjoy.
The morn and the tombs are locked in thy breast,
For these are the trophies of thine woe;
For their very presence hath ruined my worth,
For my life and wealth are all but masked.
My love is thine, mine is the grave,
And that which my treasure hides in thy heart.
Thy eyes do not make the heaven but thine,
Nor thy image do they hide thy deeds.
  But thy deeds so wondrous that thou shouldst steal
  Mine, mine, thy treasure's purpose.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which I love to thy spirit, whose spirit guides all my thought,
And that sweet instinct which leads to thee.
O, if this be false, that my love is thine,
Thy breast be of more worth than thy churl,
My eyes of thee more than thy golden churl,
Mine eyes more than thy gold jewels;
My tongue is more the better for my verse than thy tongue.
But, heaven forbid, thou wilt be deceived;
Mine is not my will but thee,
  Lest thou should my love make thee wilt.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But be careful, that thy thought may be untrue,
For what thou dost think false doth lie,
For thou dost have thy fair eye concealed.
Thy outward beauty doth deceive the heart,
And beauty doth defy the eyes.
For what thy outward beauty dost deceive the eyes,
Mine outward beauty doth defy the eyes.
The clouds that cover thee doth cover thy sight,
The sun that doth daunt the earth,
The moon that doth daunt the deep,
And stars that doth daunt thee in thy sight.
  If thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they know what fortune doth hide.
Hearing thy false words, the eyes behold
Thy image imitated, that, in thy sight,
The most wondrous jewels doth lie,
That everywhere they view thy treasure,
Or, more so, they see thy worth hid.
The eyes that see thee, their treasure doth lie,
But in thee they see fortune's keen eyes.
The more they see thy beauty, the more they see thy wealth;
  Their gold and their jewels doth stand alone.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Without shame or gross impiety,
But that I for love should thine own glass and tongue
For any outward praise that ill might show
Thy inward level through the basest glass.
For so thou art, that I to whom thy glass doth rest
Have no account, nor my sweet praise to thee
In thy deeds, to thine own glass.
  For thou art the son of the stars,
  And, to me, all the stars are false,
  All women concealing their beauty.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Excuse not thine eye's fault, but thine own fault,
For that thou art the murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such disdain as to say "Dost thou wait to hear me say"?
O, do not for a moment fear my plea
Upon thy charybdis excuse cause too much wrinkle,
For my writ large numbers of words to thee
Can speak of thine own love.
Thy great love hath enlarged the tongue of men,
And in my mind thy satire hath grown.
If thou wilt slander my praises, be thou the first
To print them in such a style that I may write
  And that I may to write more.
  But if I be tyrants, be not


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that lends to their praise all their beauty.
For how can I love thee, that thou my love should be?
I love thee so much, that thou in me shouldst stay
And be praised with my dear blood,
If not in thy heart myself but in thine.
O, let me not say that my love is short,
That it is a feature of thy loving-kindness.
For my love is mine, and I am not esteemed,
  Unless thou approve me, that my loving-kindness mightst live.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own desire to me so converted
That to thee my love and thy own sweet love
Are a single thing, even that thou are me;
For thou, being myself, am my crime,
And that thou shouldst be condemned for thy love.
Thou, being me, am thy sufficent slave,
And in this is sold this part of thee:
For, by thy love, this sin is sold
And sold for thee, not for my love.
  For, by thy love, this sin is sold
  And sold not for thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
I for joy in a breast are as when a gazelle flies
Or from the jaws of a golden carstout.
Nor can I for joy in a child's eye be shunred
The wish of my loving husband, although he in me
Comes first in a war and is a victor.
But, love, to whom I appeal,
Thou art the first, and I second--
The second is the least, and I thine,
The first to thee all the rest.
  Then do not I for love stay in my love's breast,
  But do

