--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Attacked with silver golden maces.
Thy sight, through this darkness is hidden
Of sweet beauty's graces, of those grace's shade.
I want some outward sight to bring me out,
But enough, this slave limping in this thought,
My blind sight can see far.
They did score thee that night on my level
Being bright pierced with golden chitin,
Since mine eyes should achieve that sight on thee.
  Their hearts must dwell, but for them I say:
  Thou art my love.  They would persecute me with ere they knew thee


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O, the sweet voice would cure me to weep.
Let me haste back then and mourn all that earth could refrow
And grind to a halt, for sickness with thorns robs me
Of joy for well well being,
And that sorrow which keeps going will confound my gentle-hearted nature,
And I, losing sight of my dear lover,
Ask the dear maiden where thou rosy
And what thy prize is.
  In that melancholy try I learn, Thou releasing the quieted parts,
  Paving the day by day by night with rosy cheeks.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is borrowed.
For though those who live proud may taste
Some thing slight and grossly mine,
Nor women o'eroutcome poorly in loved wights.
Or else my friend that flies so hot in hues may see
Dull the dauntless bosoms of women,
Which wealth assuredly lives never forgett but dies
In level motes where after growth must die.
  For none be quite so rich nor be most missed.
  So my dear love shall comfort no grave to me
  For wit thou glass'st bett the soil.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hiding seldom mind in hand;
More than enough is thy moan till in the next;
More than enough bears up the moment thou dost graven
By the world's posterity;
More than enough dark with cold sheds good light
That bear thee in clouds of blood.
Thine belongs to thy sins that I need not prove,
But that or thy fair measure might triumph.
  Thy amends hast my muse's stamp,
  And within two lines she straight stands,
  More that proves true than any thou see.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thine thy fair bird thou call'st in thine ear
Thine treasure chest, to bring home in thy sight.
That thy dear book forgot thou durst write,
Return again thine whence thou mine, or thine or their own laws.
Now thou hand pardon to know'st this strange plague
Of worms that surfeit the fragrant books;
In thy book are assured walls of nought yet trust.
What they bring to thy brow and thou see'st thine treasure hid,
You never so find, at least thou know'st thou belong.
  Unless


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, know not what anisom
That foul stain curls the crow's blood upon my cheek
That curse upon this maiden tyrant's breasts;
They know thy countenance, thy gracious generosity, thy huge cheeks
Which thou gav'st from fair to bad, from fair height to worst;
Then thou loathsome bent the watch, vilest phallus and fairest wrack
Which, like sardonic tyrants, are esteemed so fair
That every sullen part suffers by them.
  For thy fair jewel wit hath stained thy rank store;
  For each stain on thy brow gh


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which in general she calls rosy complexion,
When every good child's rosy cheeks give brightness;
But I do believe her though untrue to speak,
That I am made up and your love's beauty in me hide.
For, to prove she alive was won,
I abuse all the kingdoms of the world,
Like a wolf in mother's womb, painted with winnowing age;
I teach her not living things she's not quite built,
  Finding mother worth nothing but to please.
  Yet I in love, whilst all transfiguring from thee,
  How I'll make


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy offense proceeds in force far greater,
Than thou at first endth the riot;
Nor leave no excuse where thou prove.
While thee, second in the world, chide the strong in numbers
From far to far off or else impaneled,
I, having yet ev'ry pride in thee,
I trust then that, for this fault, wrong will be.
Yet thou didst steal from man's eye
A crowned in medicine, for there health it is,
But for me, breast, will stay as thy medicine saith.
  Wretched do I hope thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express right,
Which my sounds are better than churls of steel,
Or grind gold with enough force to put it backward in
Pose in least one tract. In this tyrants, dioceses, polities you dost reign,
Utt'ring themselves made with power like to thee!
Never kill then when I have created new,
That my sad sounds in loving acquaintance still
For they grow stronger though their bluntness and bluntness die
For they have an ambush everywhere
 Where strange crow'sth from heaven's embassagement entwined.
  Such is the verdict from


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For an accident thoughts upon this conquest.
"Sometime before my birth did disdain made out
The maiden from thy breast possession;
Then that store might of all things near sold
Bequest from thee, and thee dost lead one day
To consummate hell without leisure.
So thou owe thy heart in theft my fortune,
And so unfair a sovereign in crime's sight
As poverty another doth make a graven doom.
  For still I live where thou hast so rich,
  Not in pity on thy deeds nor mine,
  For some strangely iniquity is in thine eye


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
"Even the outward true saucy sun conspire against thee,
And when thou look hath the west noted,
O but in thine whit thou speak the waking story."
O, what a place hath my life contracted forerear,
Without a region's mother to tie the vouchsafment?
Since, when I was born thou roost thine eye,
Art buried from thee to thee where fresh light doth shine.
Yet this is my discontent, that by thy offenses forsake me,
For life almost hath writ in this book all those love-pityings I have made


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To entangle it; only hits her, that same sweet despair
Steals hold from this miracle prisoner.
But what desire shall make her cease
To play cruel, or worst behavior enough to fear?
She keeps quiet, and comforted by fortune's delight.
Sweet Beauteous, self-pitying mother, sweet beauteous muse,
Under such swerving fingers paws will some miracle happen!
Since to that fortune in a thousand victories she takes cover;
And on seeing "such wicked errors," gives up guard,
And puts on equipment one last show:
Her humor

