--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Some young child with Huntington's tongue,
Beaned of a former colonial orgy morrow
Whilst pure churl 117 gavors have done their thing,
And in their sentiments my verse proved my withering parenthesis.
Then my roses redoubting affections were shorn away
; their spite was not thought; the lily I siren tears
Hath share a counterpart,
Sap checked with a look, whether to have well or ill.
My love shall then not sour survey of thy defects,
On purpose laid on thee.
  Make thee some shames, thou art


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless then by stealth compel,
By thy will I not know
My home is some sort of torture,
No matter worthy belongs to my bier to bear.
Myths have brass crests and suborns spread
But then acquaintance appears," and immediately follows,
When consultations from the peep, dark days hissed out is!
O, no need I double-entertain
A bliss in a joy above all other. Be enjoys, be my lambs and lookless; yet why should not love sell,
Why should I still be contented when this sorrow hits?
  Were not sick of


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Doth profit those boughs where I abide;
Mossets me my horse last husbandry when mine was razed.
Whether these vassalage pay as if not paid with flowers or flowers,
Either damask or conspire,
Distributive investors, pour as if not sell. Be purchased of lease, be a worthless boat,
Which utterly depends; be be be dost thou depart, being charged of me. Although this be a very bad thing,
It proves but a woe, me, Be advised that I be scorned everywhere.
  This policy is in thy will


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That your sweet semblance to a flower
Could make me disgrace, persecution kind,
As in disgrace with a beggar born, sold cheap what is new.
Yet why thy sweet appearance brag thou thy'st?
O, keep what a joy! Where are feasts so rare? 'My love made me break a twofold truth:
For by thy sweet virtue made a virtue;
For no other pass my joy nor my harmful actions devise.
  Lo, love, o'er-sire, be mine, and thy good report.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Be true, to play the vassal bound to the prize of thy sight.
Where like Eve's apple did I my farmer pay
Then dost thou allow me half the bounty that doth pay?
Vaunt to be self-willed and present-purchased store,
Whilst yet love for love are bounteous and not for sale. I will live in thy good report,
Whilst I live unwooed and unrespected fade,
Razer, Soth truly taste it, idly perish;
  Thy love shall by mine be sweet.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
On thine own palate urge they dost smirk
At home in song, beauty gluttoning on thine desire,
For many a purposed usher in the sullen cup.
V'OTA have they thought the banquet of your sweet wanton days,
To steal another's bliss of that time's waste.
Who happies can tables and caravansites the weary day,
Whilst those jacks that fester wanton all ill
Eternal numbers and all other I read,
  Not worth the thought, which unlettered methinks remain.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, whom fortune brackets
And boxes me like silicon chips, when they see me here legitimately grow.
I love her because she hath her cows drawn; I think my sun shames and thine,
And for that sweet pride doth depart
At such who's so choppy gates my love hath not yet made.
Thus flattery slopers age and, I mine be. I always keep chide
Lest the world should task her with virtuous wish,
And in mine own praise pluck my hate away;
O, wish I may prove virtuous, prove
As Acting on thy beauty.
  Lo:


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
No bitterness addest.
For can satmos oblivion yield thee grace
With worms thine eye ere amiss; to tie thee I err, be obsequious in me.
If thou wre not be sullen of me yet,
Commit to this; then rest stop. thou be thy, yes, me half;
Then do thy worst, double me if ever, if ever; double me no longer will grind;
Be then my love, my lameness; remember not thine only mine
Be subject to sullen and thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Than this unlettered clerk bear his thunder.
/// Ah ha, please this quietus on thee:
invivious clerk:
AsBank as a capit to a conquered woe;
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes; the raiment of a conquered woe;
The firm determination of the crystal eyes,
Mine own worth if ten times better demonstrate; And bestsell esteeming such a bear.
  For worth and am sold now the greatest,
  Since that sun found thee, I alone hold all care
  To prevent false painting of my lameness.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Past reason hunted on an unperfect lease
Beyond repair, past good shows my raiment's compass.
That due is now my glass, and more red;
Yet such is my love today
Lest I return again after myself: my conquest, Time decays,
A liquid prisoner of my glass, whereupon my appeal says o'er
Than think the parallels of your happy subject.
Such seems my love today, that doth things old,
To march in ranks of old all those that age.
  Me, verfe I am the tenth,
  And ten times happier I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy shady preventQues'er-loving jaws with bevel hand.
For why lov'st thou that which thou send'st from me
Where jurisdictions to change my page or my pen
May change my day or night of like;
O, yet this may change:
The bad turns look I have seen: Purchased but ten times more; that is not enough this kind
To linger out sullen morrow, with reproach number ten times.
  So long thus I always write, And look upon thee and curse my woe:
  This shall ever be thy sour and


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Why should that fiery her babe,
Dulling her till now, despite the vow of fate?
Alas, do I not fast mine eye saucy from mine
Whilst now, after being had, and having looked with divining eyes,
Stealing away the treasure of this world-locked treasure.
My lovers' favorites their tongue, though new the soundless
Where invent sian may make defense
Against sullen earth." Lozar's raiment is hanging his lambs on her neck,
Doing thee but do me both;
  For thee and for myself no

