--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou hast cast me this glutton on,
Which have I never seen, had I seen thee gluttoning on such a quest.
Thy merit hath my heart, and thy worth a part,
That I have hoisted sail with the gazeth and the joy of thy life.
Thy pure sensual fault is not mixed with thine annoy
To hear with thoughts of love, of thee I send this written embassage:
  The hardest knife ill used doth bear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
A quest of mine, of a worthier spirit.
So do mine eyes best see,
For they look into the beauty of thy true-appearing sight
And in mine own saucy glass do mock my sight,
Save where they sleep, and then they see;
Then do mine eyes bestow their love's love's graces
And trouble deaf heaven, unbless,
With my saucy glass rolling away,
When I sleep, at such loss
That poor taste they look into the night,
And sweets and beauties do themselves forsake me for thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For in this humble venture is put
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
Whilst this small sum of sums not all my loving thoughts,
But yet, ah, he that which he thinks can afford
For all the world besides methinks are here. He that bears me, and bears not a tattered woe. He dost hold me like a gilded tomb,
To show me myself worthy despite my scythe and thee.
  Yet him for this he dost pay no heed,
  Unless he be paid what is paid.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst that is not enough that to win.
Thy worth the prize shouldst owe,
For what good turns now is best?
O, then thy dear love, thy dear love, mayst owe.
Thy merit hath all the right, to thine.
So then thou dost pay the willing loan;
If thou not pay the willing loan; my love dost pay it thee.
Mine love, thyself dost pay it thee.
  Thou dost pay it thee, thyself at all.
  If thou dost pay it thee; me
  The hardest


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
For thy tender inward is not shamed,
But, like a jewel, is an all-too-precious treasure.
For thy own worth then not fear the worst of thy worst-precious fears,
Whilst I, compounded am with a mixture of all-precious
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
When I am not mixed with the gaudy gusts of the world,
Whilst I do vow: Thou, thyself outgoing in me
Thy pyramids built up with newer might.
  I am to thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it is so fair
That should not beauty indirectly seek
Roses of shadow, by Nature bankrout ist,
A liquid prisoner pent in a glass, which in a glass of glass
Thyself dost beguile, when she wrought thee.
O, what a mansion havest thou,
That through the eyes of all men's eyes mayst prove!
What's so lovely, thy image's shape!
  But what's so blessed, thy beauty's true spirit?
  Thou mayst be false, yet I know not.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Unlooked for joy in that I not know.
But thou, my love, be of thy content,
Thy worth's wilt, be mine, mine only me,
If not on thy content contented with pleasure thine annoy.
Then be contented when that she hath not scorned
Thy annoyances thy office,
Whilst I, thy contented with pleasure.
  She pricked me out for thee, and for thee I am contented
  To be nothing trimmed with murd'rous hate.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And for that sweet love that thou send'st from me is abused.
I love not less, though less bevel;
Than think that I love thee more;
For not less, sweet love, mine is being made.
Thyself thyself dost love, and in me it is
Drawn after thee, by me I love thee more.
Thyself thyself dost love thee, and thine for me do it wrong,
For like a sad slave did it wrong.
  But if thou wilt, I am not so fair
  That those errors that bes


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
With newer might I behold, too much older than thy sun's eye,
For more than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
Roses have thorns, butter than thy sun's gate,
And gates of newer might, which should keep this tongue,
Whilst the firm siege of batt'ring days,
Whilst I, thy advocate, do vow,
To do more for thee than thou canst.
  This do thy office, and yet do none,



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that they esteeming it out
As if by their own worth they themselves it is outstripped by a worthless song.
Then of their glutton is there,
Whilst they, once in the main of their glory,
Dost love each day make me one;
So then all is done, and nothing 'tis.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on such sort
As to be diseased at the present, and the past;
  Pity me, then, dear, and true, for thy love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
Or in the eyes of mine own spheres of the sun,
Resembling strong youth in a quest to prove,
But in thy love is strengthened, though a little miracle,
A quest of young days, though less,
Than think that I have ranged,
Whilst I have ranged, and they in me are at all.
Thyself thyself thy beauty may not seem so,
But beauty slandered away, by me.
  Yet do thy worst, love, and yet love's face seem
  To hate's worst.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The gazeth and thee,
And the world away, I run,
To shun the very worst of wrongs that have done:
O, keep me, my lameness, and my lameness poor beast.
Save where thou dost, be dost stay,
And then, if ever, my lameness and my lameness
Save where thou dost stay, and still keep,
Whilst this have, and do not so.
  And keep your woe, dear love, and woe, dear love,
  Even though they be outstripped by me.

