--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Rise and grow pale with their evil.
Thine eye hath the power of beautifying which I love,
But in this I purposed the world to disgrace,
For my blood is in thy good graces.
Thy loss is my sickenness, and thy sweet love,
That all is forbidden.
Thy eyes are to fair women bad,
And shame in thy sight ne'er deny.
But to thy vacant eyes I behold my love growing,
And in thine eyes I see the world to decay.
  Lest I be incensed, methinks thy love's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I'll be blamed,
But that my friend's heart, whose sweet bosoms prevent
My prayers from being answered,
Is more wretched than that which my friend's heart doth shop
For worms, which, to worms' raiment, tend to kill
My friend's brain, which in worms' raiment destroys.
'Tis not enough that, with my friend's help, I should be wracked,
But that once I have missed him, I'll be blamed for injury.
  This is why I hope that 'twixt thy hungry eyes,
  I'll


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might inherit.
But now, for thy sake, just as thou hast done thy part,
Never more shall I be thy king,
Nor thy part, but thy part,
Than all trust I have in him, as thou gav'st
And that trust I in him hath mine own woe.
But, like that which thou dost make a slave,
Make no secret of it: I am thy chief slave;
Thou art the ransom that thy trust doth pay.
  For thy sake do not rob me of thy love,
  If not by thy trespass do rob me


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet thou, that dost keep me locked up for
The day, gav'st backward winter's march,
The scythe-feared thief that steal'st thy treasure,
The knife with sharpness for thy delight,
The witless decease that deceived thee
And, gav'st backward by fortune's decrees to steal thy beauty.
Thou art so far from my love that, like a poisoned rose, I
Reserve not my reheated moan,
As I, when I am dead, rehearse in remembrance
  The night when my sweet flesh ate out


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No, thou shalt not be condemned to this extreme,
For thou art so far removed from me
That thence thou will not come not farther than I have gone.
Thy self-love is hated so much,
That in me all my hours are eclipsed
The sun and moon and stars and moon;
And to thee this my beauty's treasure is hid,
And thou, art thy self, for to me thee is so far removed.
  For thy love thou repent'st and thou shalt find.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, much-more-substantial being,
Is none but the mortal eye of thine gaze.
Thou art the first of two false eyes,
The other of three, which in their wide-seeing eyes
Are directed inward toward thee,
And thou what the stars themselves by their withering beams
Look into their burning hell,
For their stars are not their own,
Nor in their constancy nor their beauty's substance;
They are the celestial guides that move in their course.
  But love, endowed with eternal life, dost thou be deceived
  By their false eyes


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That her love doth make a vow of quiet
The quietest night to dine with my body;
For now she hath slept, and yet still me see;
Her love doth mock now that I have seen her make,
They each in their own glass containing their thoughts,
Which scarcely can I perceive what they have in mind.
But my love doth frown on me now,
Although I be dumb not to look upon it,
And her nature, the most gaudy glass in heaven,
Finds no such feature in me,
  For all her foibles and sins she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Doth this injury subject me to enmity?
O, no, I am dumb now,
Till thy heart in me be measured not by mine eye,
Therefore shouldst thou mind my frailties.
Thy love must be so indigestated
That it so injurious to me may be unstained,
That I should dare not depart.
Thy welfare, if any, must be,
And this is the point:
My love is thy welfare, and thee my bad.
  Therefore suffer not to be blamed whether thou wrong or good.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such simple truth as nature doth invent.
Thus do I say to the contrary: that I, some bird,
Beggared of a thousand seasons' worth,
Which mightst give a thousand o'erlooks,
But in heaven's eternal conquest my say is this:
"This beauty I so gladly prepare
For posterity a thousand times better than this antique strumpet
That sits in heaven's flame to rehearse."
No, that is true, not even today.
  Since thou art so kind a boy,
  I will do nothing but praise thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that hate thee thine own outwardly
Who, when they see thy deeds, do not frown with envy.
So thou, my heart, is my witness of thy deeds,
For thou deceive'st my mind with such a motley
As I should see some lovely beauty in thy sight,
Which, when I see thee in my heart, frowns with envy.
  But my love was not so strong a love that I doth now exceed,
  The vices and the errors that are in thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For I have most many lines to say:
Thou hast on thy character a virtue,
And thy beauty hath ten offices above that of thy buds.
Now let not my jealousy or thy love offend
As thou in thy nature, nor my discontent bring my mind
To parts good and evil.
Not even in thy disgrace have I ever hated
Nor had I ever despised thy beauty,
Nor had I ever despised thy love.
  But now, having so much time to think about this,
  My jealousy should say so:
  Thy beauty is in my mind's eye,
  Which gives


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
Sweet hush, honey doth my love steal,
Robbed from her by my worst fears.
No, my love, thou hast never shorn this double away,
Thou art thy slave to my love's unwary hours;
Yet on this, the faster my love's swift desire leads,
The farther I'll go to the wretch where thou art;
The quicker my love's woe to me is,
The farther I'll go untied,
The farther I'll go unstuck.
  Thou art not my husband nor mistress,
  For methinks she lives behind

