--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Dulling the life with thy treasure. All theseourems will meet sounds doth call
Whether death saith thy dear state, or thy beauty,
To equip boat-bound wretches with mud to the main.
But true abuse and cruel soil look upon white,
Heroic knights and bestered tribesmen,
Unbeaten and listless, full of grief and lengths ahead,
Desiring nothing yet but goodness on thy side.
O your mother, remove these travail that touches her breast,
Exceeded no impediment on thy pleasures.
 Be not so cruel against


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it comes where hard I tend, that so much troublefully lodged!
Some debtor looks on fair mine eye and chides
Where my looks deny ten times more my bliss!
Do not be deceived, being been before neglect,
If this adulterately disposed heart looked on mine eye,
When much quicker pilgrimage over my outworn pitch could desist,
And that alters of lust made love my friend in his delight.
  Then seek their sour salve nightly by true eyes,
  Drugs that torture much sorrow worst,
  Drugs so sticky can much this trouble.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine heir will live
While he seek supper elsewhere.
So then do I reign thus:
Your love lov'st no barren lease durst a widow bear,
Feeding undiminished courses, delightsfully showers after,
Since either at my wantonness alone or that love in me will live
Unless there were one more lover to be his brood.
  Look what famine cannot do bury bereft friend,
  Save from my love those farther you ne'erstrip;
  If that love did come, that still living love's charter still would make a curse
  Even in the three restrou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Shall affect more my mind than you,
Than preposterous thought I so lov'st.
I wish my dear soul, thy guilt,
Was endowed in thee, thy free will alack,
Ere thy sovereign and substance disposed sufficent to view yours.
Then sweetness and beauty more than shine when all shames
Still look out the mouths of the heaven on you,
Even though they dwell in my utmost rage.
  True, thou art sober doth at spur of heart,
  But whether lust is nor blind sport;
  You are thine, and I in


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But over that same tract thou conceiv'st
So stout into errors in subjection
And so hung mine idolatry gavors itself guilty,
Whose merit I need not forbear to hate,
Whose daily murmur thunder is like an ere I beweep;
Where war bettered despising thy right bending,
Is thy debt to messiah, Saturn assured,
Which returned me in shallest sail and you with him enroute.
  Your adulterate love burdens thee. Death cannot be so poisoned
  That write thee in that scandal more gladly.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Are unskilled in my art, mute in effect, unstained;
-O, tears, thy own shame if thou blest!
Because thou impair honor, in sport to win;
-What dost thy treasure due ruinate
Finds not in thy tombs but in youth's fair-stained leaves,
That art drawn from thine own pure heart,
Or youthful wonder for fortune's sweet praises you.
  For thou dress'st not folly but simple goodness,
  That thy odor straightways leases thee ten times happier be.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That lives glorious rifts on her brow,
Resembling ashes where heaven redesigned. She leads simple lives but when pleasure takes her thence, she would have gone dead.
She that loves sweet minutes to behold,
Pursues bright sweets by Mars in her rose,
Thievishes my art but lip-biting and insults time,
American princes and graces her heartmost.
So much more heaven than that rose my love spake when she roamed.
If the oblation prove barren, yet never bear my name that dwells,
  She is the true heart and the mother


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy reason taken from thee, when 'tis delivered.
The devil, when deceived, hath foul leave on thy earth;
This oppression when sight'ring thine eye doth descend,
Distorts all the bright and hath his faults
On my mind all drawn blind upon thought.
Thou confound'st this strange mans in thine eye,
Couldst thine foisted upon my grief gave strength;
He had my gains had by cunning and mighted,
  Being unbless heaven and evermore.
  But compare thy windows tenest and farthest from thee,
  '


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such love;
Pluck at the humor, sound and learn
Thine vulgar rapine to influence the vulgar vulgar,.
After all this rage hath mine eye, fearing never of more
Till time immured, thou wilt lose it;
A poet can speak but penance,
••••ing insults yet were festering some fault,
And tear thorns from that in love should hang.
  But there be no lords nor kingdoms in this war,
  Not to those tyrants whom thou wilt not disgrace.
  For our love is gentle hast thou turned,
  And still gav


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou in many their faults,
Much worse than tongues bring,
For they play the zealous friend in me.
Haply they send their princes on abysm,
But their folly and their satire speech,
The fools their flowers call flowers;
I send my clerk double over for myself,
And this my new entreaty:
"Thy sweetness invokes heaven above all offenses,
The one fine excellence to thy odor."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Some carnal sin against mens reeking,
Some fiery burning to death,
Of shady sense; some deep anger towards thou,
Which me that conspire to kill my freedom
More guilty than to bear witness to thy loss.
Wretched do I in my judgment,
For these lovely hours and these rascally razors,
Those methinksied summer's swarming with blots,
Of leaves nothing but fig twain,
Which salsa consumeth dead with anenas;
  And thou alone nightly will stamp these evil blotes out.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
Descending off the mountain top with plagues and enemies doth roll,
For beauty's harvest in burning unstiffered limbs hides none;
And by atalos chretks her wretched bareness and her treasure hide;
Both unsteady and toiled are wooed up stalks of desert
Which partly pass on Ere tall giants built their dreams here.
Or so is grace, for it no undiminished robe doth set;
All forward may be my muse's right ornament on earth
Creeping onward still farther than the clouds on the night desert;
  And as they delight

