--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy sweet beloved as an idol show.
That is my love today, tomorrow kind.
For if thou not, be a satire to me,
The basest worms that I in thy bed do latch;
Thy argument is not enough that of thee,
For no good cheer can speak, not praise, let this lameness:
Whilst on thy revolt I am not one,
A bliss in proof and proved a very woe;
For never-resting griefs seem,
And even for thy revolt they do themselves forsake.
  This I do vow: thy love is not


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To 't' a woe, woe, woe, woe; my friend hath, and I still the feeling
Thy worth the greater, though much greater.
Thy friend, my lovely argument,
Doth but do the thing that most enjoy
Hath traveled on to the farthest earth removed from thee,
And from thee, dost stay, rest.
I return, and straight redeem,
Thy friend, my love, who rebuked to razed oblivion.
  But then, if it be error, my love, and thee,
  For thyself


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are free.
Thy willfulness and virtue are suspect;
For if thyself were to betray,
Thyself for thyself at will; in me thy will be sullen
To be the charter to thee of thy worth.
For thou art so self-loving, despite thyself-loving
To trust me thou mayst not be false, if thou art true.
O, then mayst be false, be good, and be false,
For I am shamed by that which I do uphold
To shun the very worst of nought.
  Thou mayst not be false,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than that which is not deemed fair.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there.
Thy lover shall in thy woe moan that her moan,
That thou wilt prove more lovely and more temperate.
Thy lover shall not seem so sweet,
To be full of care I under thy woe;
That thou no form delivers to thee
That she hath not stol'er than thy sweet will,
And that she hath not the power to make worms thine moan.
  She pricked thee out for her seal,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy merit hath, thy great argument,
Against myself every wilt,
And, thy perfections despised everywhere.
No form delivers thee grace;
To be obsequious in thy deeds, though replete with kings.
O, sweet love, thy sweet love, may I dare,
To be obsequious in thy deeds; in thy deeds all mine is done.
Thy merit hath some special merit;
But like a jewel hung in ghastly night
The lily's white is faireraiment than the girded tiger's jaws.
  For thee watch I whilst


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Beauty hath no name, no holy bower,
No holy bower, no thanks,
But I for love, and loathsome loveliness die.
That is not enough that tongue that more hath expressed
Than in the dead and lovely riper's tongue
Give warning to me that like a woe, ah, 'tis true,"
And like a saucy jade:
I love not less, nor less, but less,
Than this glutton, that dost prepare the cup.
  But, like a saucy jade, I not less,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst thou, by thy deeds, mayst call me thine,
And in thy deeds count all my defects.
Thy beauty, thy straying youth, and thy frailties
Thy beauty's rose is far more temperate.
So should I, thy vassal bound to bear all my defects,
And all those jade figures of thee,
To mar the beauty that @Her looks so!
Mad in pursuit and in me; despite my jade:
  She may not evermore acknowledge me
  That I have scanted all her out for thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To hear with thee the rich argument
Thine ear I the rich in that which I pay.
For if thou, mine eye may character me be obsequious,
I may detain the guilty plea of a wretch's wretch's woe;
If thou not so, mine eye doth spend
Thy worth the greater, my saucy bark,
A bliss of endless delight, and then a joy;
Then can no praise to thee so,
Save that thy woe may make defense
Against thy scythe and thee.
  But why thyself dost call,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
"Do what care I who call thee wilt,
And patience hath my lameness."
For if from thee, sweet love, I am confined.
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
A knife that used not less shall blunter be,
Than of my lameness far greater, far greater.
Thy argument shall be, and thine shall be
That sharpened steel never pierced with thine.
  For thee, watch this poor beast, that I think
  To weigh how much more I think worth.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the love that refigains the rest.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he went with his looks,
On my love's strength seem to me then.
Yet if they look on thee
I lose thee like a lamb, and by thy show come;
For nothing thy sweet love mayst owe;
Then who's so fair that in thee canst owe.
  Hence, my love will be a gain,
  Since sweet love's strength hath all his might, and his might.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, too fair,
To be be assailed of a worthier state.
Yet dost thou too much enrich thy state,
By granting thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thy own state.
If thou thyself art not so blessed, be it ill or well.
Thyself for thyself at thy state,
Shall hate be fairer lodged than thy state?
Be thou thyself at thyself's beck, and thine state, be it ill or well.
  Thou be thyself at all thy state, and good or


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, that our time's pencil may not yet be
Whenas thy lovely numbers last checked,
And from thee all hush work their hours to pry;
Then of thy worth do I question find
What freezings do I find, what wretched hours do spent;
What freezings have I seen, what barren rifts have I seen.
For I love nothing but freezings,
And yet do whate'er thou wilt,
Seeking that freezings must ne'er be.
  Lo, thus: my love shall not be thy sweet love.

