--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy love is not so strong
As thou art, nor so strong
As thy love's strong hand, nor so strong
As thy love's strong foot, nor so strong
As thy love's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong foot's strong


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am not confined in my thoughts,
Nor can I be confined in my thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
For thou art mine own self, and I am thy heir,
And that thou art mine own self to ransom me.
Thou art mine own self, and I am thy heir,
And that thou art mine own self to ransom me.
For thou art mine own self, and I am thy heir,
And that thou art mine own self to ransom me.
  For this I am so much vexed,
  That I will not ransom thee, but thou shalt ransom me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I am thy slave, and thou art my master's slave.
Thou art my love, my love, and I, my love's slave,
And yet thou art my slave, and I am thy slave,
And yet thou art my love's slave,
And yet thou art my love's slave,
And yet thou art my love's slave,
And yet thou art my love's slave,
And yet thou art my love's slave,
  And yet thou art my love's slave,
  And yet thou art my love's slave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the first to be converted,
And, if thou be converted, thou shalt be converted
To thyself and thyself alone.
If thou be converted, thou shalt be converted
To thyself and thyself alone.
If thou be converted, thou shalt be converted
To thyself and thyself alone.
If thou be converted, thou shalt be converted
To thyself and thyself alone.
  Thou art the first to be converted,
  And, if thou be converted, thou shalt be converted
  To thyself and thyself alone.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, their sweetest love, dost see
The sweetest buds of flowers, which in thy buds
Doth live in thy buds, and in thy buds
Thy beauty doth live in thy buds,
And in thy buds dost live thy sweetest buds.
But thou, their sweetest love, dost not see
The sweetest buds of flowers that dost live in thy buds.
  Thy sweetest buds dost live in thy buds,
  And thy sweetest buds dost live in thy buds.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I might be a true widow,
And that I might live to see the end of your love.
But I do believe her, and believe her so,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I might live to see the end of your love.
  And yet, for love's sake, I do believe her true,
  And believe her so, that I might live to see the end of your love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art my friend, my friend's treasure,
And I, like a dove, will not be shaken
By thy blunt force, nor my blunt sword thrust
Against the earth's edge nor the sea's edge's edge's edge's edge's edge's edge.
Thou art my friend's treasure, my friend's treasure,
And I, like a dove, will not be shaken
By thy blunt force nor my blunt sword thrust
Against the earth's edge nor the sea's edge's edge.
  But if thou wilt, my friend, I will be shaken
  And my treasure be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a deep sense of grief as thou art wont.
For thou art so cruel, so unkind,
That I, being so cruel, should not be so kind
As to say, "Thou art so cruel that I am so kind,"
Nor should I so much as look on thy frown,
Nor should I so much as look on thy frown
Nor should I so much as look on thy face
Nor should I so much as look on thy face
  As to say, "Thou art so cruel that I am so kind."
  For thou art so cruel that I am so kind


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my heart's pleasure is measured.
For thou art my love, my heart's pleasure,
And that my heart's pleasure is measured by thy deeds.
Thou art my sweet love, my sweet heart's pleasure,
And that my heart's pleasure is measured by thy deeds.
  But thou art my sweet love, my sweet heart's pleasure,
  And that my heart's pleasure is measured by thy deeds.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love, thy own love,
Which, like thy love, is in love's power,
And that love is more strongly grounded in thee.
O, but with thy love, thy love's power,
Thy love's power is more strongly grounded in thee.
O, but with thy love, thy love's power,
Thy love's power is more strongly grounded in thee.
  For thy love is more strongly grounded in me than thy love.
  Thy love is more strongly grounded in me than thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, like a proud maiden, she doth not take
The swiftest leap, but doth leap,
And doth jump, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
And doth leap, and doth leap,
  And d

