--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who, like to death, mourn for thee,
For thy love hath been dyed with a stain.
Thine eyes I love, and they, like to death,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who, like to death, mourn for thee,
For thy love hath been dyed with a stain.
  But that is not my grief, for thou art mine.
  Thou art mine, my love is mine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To have some excuse to detain
My thoughts and my thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
The best of all my good deeds.
But, when he hath done this, I will take him prisoner,
For, like a tyrant, he will not abide
The lawful possession of me, nor my charter,
Nor my charter, nor my rights, nor my charter's rights,
Nor my charter's rights, nor my charter's rights, nor my charter's rights,
Nor his charter nor my charter's rights, nor my charter's rights,
Nor my charter nor my charter's rights, nor my charter's rights,
Nor his charter nor my charter's rights, nor my charter's


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet thou art so far removed from me,
That I will not be the first to be wrong.
If thou wilt, my love, I will be thy slave,
And I will not leave thee alone
To make my mistress happy, or to make her happy
For that I am thy master.
Thou art the most gracious mistress,
And I will be thy slave,
And thou my love will be my mistress's mistress's.
  Therefore be not so kind as I am,
  For thou art the most gracious mistress.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy presence, thy sight, is esteemed the most worthy of thy sight,
And thy sight is esteemed the most precious jewel.
O, no, thou art the most precious jewel,
For thou art the jewel that dost steal thy sight,
And that thy sight doth steal thy beauty's treasure.
O, be not deceived, for thou art the jewel that dost steal thy sight.
Thy sight is thy jewel, thy sight is thy jewel's treasure.
  Thy sight is thy love, thy love is thy jewel's treasure.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if thou wilt not know, why shouldst thou shun
Thy love's sweetest jewel?
Thou art the fairest of all, and most pleasing to thy eyes.
The beauty that dost thou look upon
Is such that thou dost not perceive,
But that thou art so blessed in thy sight.
O, thou art so blessed, that thou art so blessed in thy sight.
  For thou art so blessed in thy sight that thou art so blessed in thy sight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might live in love's eye,
That she might in love's eye lie,
That she might be deceived in my love's eyes,
That I, her lover, might do my worst
To hide her from public view,
Or else I should be false to her,
For my love's worthiness is that it lies
And decease'st me that I am so bold
To tell the truth of her deeds.
  She that commits a crime should be condemned,
  For what I do shall be my crime,
  And I, her lover, shall be blamed.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art the most wretched offender in me,
Which, like a lamb, I will not kill
But with thy sweet odor kill,
And then, like a lamb, I will be thy bait
And kill not with thy odor but with thy tongue.
  But for this I will be an murderess,
  And in thee I will be condemned.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My grief at thy crime.
For thou art so cruel that I shall not be blamed,
Nor I, nor thy crime, nor thy love, nor thy love's name
Nor my dear love nor thy kindness nor thy gracious deeds
Nor thy poor state nor thy love's willfulness, nor thy sweet love's
Nor my dear love's kindness nor thy poor state's willfulness,
Nor my dear love's kindness nor thy poor state's willfulness,
Nor my dear love's kindness nor thy poor state's willfulness,
Nor my dear love's kindness nor thy poor state's willfulness,
Nor


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their love is this: that they might hate thee so,
That they might not so much as deny thee.
So do I not so much as deny thee,
As thou art so gracious, so kind, so kind,
That they might deny thee so much,
And be so kind as to say that thou shouldst love me so.
  For thou art so gracious, so kind, so kind,
  That they might deny thee so much,
  And be so kind as to say that thou shouldst love me so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own self-love, which hath no such measure
As to remove from thee.
Thou art my friend, my love, my love's charter,
And thyself, thyself my friend,
To whom thou wilt derive thyself's ransom.
I have been in love with thee, and thou art my friend
Thyself to my love and to thyself to me.
Thou art my friend, my friend, my friend's charter,
And thou, my friend, my friend's charter,
  To whom thou wilt derive thyself's ransom.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To kill her in a riot of war.
The sun hath his lusty dial,
And his lusty dials his lusty brood;
The honeycomb's lusty hand hath his lusty dial;
The honeycomb's lusty dials his lusty brood.
So, like the sun, all eyes are on thee
And all eyes are upon thee;
The world and all men are on thee,
And thou, like the sun, is the sun's lusty dial.
  But thou, like the sun, is not thy lusty dial,
  For thy lusty dial

