--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Aching to their doom with rage.
Yet thou, my love, my love's thief,
By thy loving eyes I see,
And, pursuing me with all my might,
By thy loving eyes I see the world's edge,
And in my rage and rage's fury
When my rage's edge would be so sharp
As to divide the universe's face.
  Yet thy eyes I see, and they, as pitying me,
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
  Whose blood my heart so injurious doth pour.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To know that heart that gives thee my love?
What kind of love are you that do not lie,
And so sweetly do I hope that thou mightst seem
Like an ill to me, though poor in heart and soul.
O, if thy heart be ill, how can I thank thee
For thy love of me so ill.
Thou art so kind a friend that can make my heart sing,
Which, to my mind, is the heart's sole purpose.
  If thou be ill, how can I thank thee
  If I have nothing else to say.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not steal.
I then will go out of thy sight
And make no more pilgrimage to thy will
Than when I return to thee, from thy sweet-goosey heart.
So that thou mayst desire me to return,
And that I live a virtuous life
And that thou mayst evermore live my sweet love.
  But thou shouldst not be so kind to me,
  For thou art my treasure, my life and all my love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I for thy sake will not be so bold,
For thou art mine own worst foe,
For to me thou art mine own worst foe.
I love thee that I love thee,
And I do not wish to be so bold,
As to myself so bold as to leave thee.
Thou art mine own worst enemy, and I hate thee with all my hate.
If thou wouldst break me, I would do that to thee.
  But if thou wouldst break me, I would break thee,
  Even so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy sweetest heir, thy sweetest husband,
To thy sweet love, which hath been confined
In this world for a thousand winters,
And, to thy sweet love's brief stay, hath lived
For a thousand winters in this world, and, in this world's judgment,
Thy love hath lived for a thousand winters in this world.
Therefore be thou thy heir, thy sweetest heir.
  Then thou shouldst inherit all the earth, all the sea, all the heaven,
  And all the stars, all the sun's stars, all the stars' stars' stars


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that thou art the subject of their eyes' view.
Look whence thou art, thou art the scope of their eyes' keen eyes' sight.
They see what thou art, thou art the scope of their eyes' keen eyes' keen eyes' keen eyes.
O, look what thou art, thy sight so far removed
From the eye of heaven's sweetest star that thou dost gaze
On the heaven's sweetest star, which hath so far eclipsed
That thou dost look in the face of the world.
Look what thou art, thy sight so far removed
From the eye of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That among the dead I might survey the world,
And that she might leave me alone.
Now, if thou wilt, I shall be buried dead
In my love's bosom, where thou art buried,
And none but my mother's name shall dwell
Upon the grave of her husbandry.
O, if thou wilt, I will be buried
In my husbandry's blood, where thou art buried.
  But if thou wilt, I will be buried,
  As thou hast buried me in my love's bosom.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not worms in my tongue, which in thy breast
Have poisoned me with thy poison?
But yet, being poisoned, thou hast no right to blame me;
Thy crime is thy trespass, and I am to blame,
For that thy trespass hath done injury to me.
Thou art my muse, and if thou do me honor,
Thy'll most gracious verse should bear it.
  But if it be false, it is not my crime
  To slander thy name.
  Thou art my muse, and if thou slander'st my name,
  My verse should bear


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sorrow
Nor do I shun the thought of a bastard child;
I love thee, in all thy scythe skill,
Thy beauty's richly deserved glory.
O, why should I not praise thee,
Even when thou art so strong,
As to draw me to thee?
O, do not be so bold, for thou art such
As to draw me to thee,
That I may admire thy beauty's wealth,
Or else be deceived by thy lies.
  For true beauty is so fair, that thou art so dumb
  That I hate to hear thy praises.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their thoughts in me a thousand errors.
I love thee with my thoughts, though they dull,
For I love not nothing that I love but thy thoughts.
I love thee in thought, though they dull,
For I love not so much my thought but thy thoughts.
  So love is not my envy nor mine own pride,
  But mine own thoughts, their defects, are my envy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like an ill slave, doth pay thee thy due.
O, but with mine own compare thou wilt be the better,
For what I owe is not thy fair,
Nor thy fair'st but my fair'st but mine own fair.
O, but with thy own compare thou wilt be the better,
For what I owe is not thy fair,
Nor thy fair'st but mine own fair.
  But what I owe is not thy fair, nor thy fair'st but mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The fortune-telling goddess, having foreseen
The birth of a new-born babe,
And given that beauty's delight
To make a fresh feast of all her subjects,
Sets her on the march, and brings her home
To a barren barren desert where she sits still,
And lays waste her treasure.
Her joy, for she doth live, lies in her husbandry;
And all her wantonness destroys her husbandry.
  And yet, for love's sake, she lives, and yet she doth live--
  And yet love doth love her-- that

