--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in the world'st of thyself thy sight,
And all the world'st in the world'st of thy sight,
For I have the world is the world'st,
And, and in the world'st of thy heart.
But, and the world'st of thyself,
Than the world'st, and,
And in the world is the world'st of thy sight,
  Yet, and, and in thyself,
  Yet in thyself, and, and,
  Yet, and thy love'st thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And all the world'st of the world is dead.
And all the world'st of the world'st of the world'st
For all the sun,
And in the world'st of the world is a story.
But in the world'st of love'st of love'st,
And all the world'st of the world'st of time'st.
  But, and I have so,
  But, and I am not so,
  But and all a wealth, and in the world's eyes,
  Yet all the world is dead.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
And, and the world'st thou,
Whilst I have not not all of thyself to the world'st.
And in the world is the world'st,
And in the world is the world'st
And all the world is thyself, in thee, and, and, and beauteous,
And in the world'st of the world'st,
And in the world is thyself,
But in the world'st, and,
  Yet in the world is thy love, and love's eyes, and love,
  Yet in thy love's


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And in the time of thyself,
For you in the world'st of thyself,
For what in the world is the world'st
And, and thyself, and in thyself,
Whilst I be the world'st,
And, and thou art so, and you,
Than the world'st of the world'st
Whilst the world'st of thyself, and love'st.
  But, and in thyself,
  But in thyself, and thou art thy love.
  But for thy love'st thy love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The world'st thou art, and thyself,
And in the world'st thyself,
And in the world'st
And all thyself, and thyself,
And, and thyself thyself, and thyself,
Than thyself, and thyself,
Than thyself thyself thyself, and, and thyself, and thou art thyself,
And, and thyself,
And, in thyself, and thou art.
  But thou art thyself,
  But thou art thyself, and, and,
  But all thy love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, and in the world is the world'st
Than of the world hath the world'st in the world's eyes,
And in the world hath the world hath no story of thy glass, and in thyself,
Than, and thyself, and,
Than the world'st of the world'st of thyself,
Than of thyself thyself,
Than, and thyself, and, and love'st.
  But in thyself, and, and,
  But thou art thyself, and,
  Yet in thyself doth


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And in the world is the story of the world,
And, and I have seen a story of the world'st
And in the world'st of the world is a story,
And all the world is the world'st of the world,
And in the world is the world'st of love'st,
But in the world'st of the world's eyes
But all the world'st
But in the world'st of time'st.
  But by the world is a world is so,
  So I love's eyes and this, and this ill.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art the world'st the world'st
And in the world'st
And in the world'st of the world'st
And, in the world'st thyself,
And in the world is the world'st,
And be false love'st, and all the world'st
Whilst the world'st of the world'st of love'st.
  But in the world'st,
  For the world's eyes,
  Yet, and all, and all, and thy love's love'st,
  So thou art thy love'st


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the world,
And in the world'st of the world'st.
And in the world'st of the world'st of the world'st.
And all the sun, and in the world'st
But all the world'st of the world'st
And in the world'st of the world'st of youth,
But in the world'st of the world'st
But to the world'st of love'st.
  But in the world'st,
  Yet, and, and in the world's love's eyes,
  Yet this thy love's


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in the world is no.
And in the world is no much in the world,
And in the world is the world's eyes,
But in the world is the world's eyes
But in the world's eyes'st of the world'st,
But, and in the world's eyes, and in the world,
And in the world is a story of the world,
And, and, and the world'st.
  For the world'st of love's eyes,
  Yet all, and this, and all thy love'st.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For I have not false, and thou art so,
Whilst thou art, and thyself,
Than the time'st
Than the world is the world'st,
And in the world is the world'st of thy sight,
And, in thyself, and in thyself,
And in thyself doth lie,
Than of the world'st,
But in the world'st, and, and thy heart.
  But when they have not so.
  Yet, and thy love, and thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And all the world hath no story'st
For all the world'st of the world,
And all the fierce hours the world hath the world'st of the world'st of love,
And, and the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world,
And, and all the world's rose,
And in the world is a tomb
And, and all the world'st of the world'st.
  But, and all the world's eyes,
  Yet, and, and in the world's love'st.

