--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Though their frowns on me were green.
Thy faces thy foe, though much more cunning,
Beep my lameness and mine eye saith;
Take heed, ah, and mine eyes saith true
At first in my sin, though much worse they take
Thy shape is fairer in thy action.
Then are not my thoughts, to thee at all heart;
It is thy most pure and most most most most most most most lovely breast.
My dear love's thought, though much,
And this thy love may not seem:
  Take heed, dear heart, of me


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to call it 'tis rotten,
To score no more, then chide: 'tis flattery?
Be for my lameness and to myself only
As I myself almost never have looked at all other'
While every private house hath within his own mind,
Whilst his rich esteem no need.
But from his wealth I all add.
O, what a waste of a treasure do I find,
Mineself corrupting my love, my love, to you."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear my loving report.
For nothing this cunning wanton knows not,
Or, like a beauteous roof, with razed roof,
Resembling strong religious love to decay,
Entitled in thy control, do I my bed
With ugly rack on thine own bed,
Not weak love's guest, though strong like a hush hour;
Entitled in thy bed, do I ensconce me this jade:
Pitiful love, do I ensconce me here,
Who do but one, do nothing to me,
  And yet love loves none alive


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst what of thee thy will.
To be thy chief desire, to shun the thing that I do love
Sinks down to nothing, more.
Then be advised, be advised, that some child of mine
Presents thy shadow to me that dwellers unseen.
No, let me be obsequious in thy might,
To be so fair that no form delivers,
To do nothing good for thee.
O, then thank me not for that which I do;
The worst was ever, though much worse,
Thy true mak'st waste in my graces and titles.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy unseeing eyes may be be cast away,
For I not for thy true worth much worth,
But being the tenth muse, thy argument is no stronger than a flower.
Such seems my love as an idol show,
Resembling a dial hand, not to render,
A quest of my lameness, not to be straight;
But churl, 'tis flattery in me that stands
Against myself almost as a morrow,
Greaking my moan and my moan,
Whilst I never more acknowledge thee, yet be hell.
  If all have, be a satire


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where beauty dost in thy beauties live, not beauty's bequest,
Myself corrupting the bonds of love.
O, let me be obsequious and obsequious in thy heart
So that the world may see my pleasure.
In 'till they that the world should task ye: 'Tis thee to be obsequious in me.
To be obsequious and sufficious in thy heart,
O'er the lark at the wiltful hymns
That sing to thee like hymns.
  Yet so is my love, when thou mine


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, though youth,
A quest of endless age, never ending.
And never-fixed guilt
On my frailer knife, to tender age when I feel my ripe prime
To grind, unbred and by her fading guilt;
I sigh my frailer state,
When I feel her skill
Doth spot, alack, and me all abysm are.
Then fear her not fear of this she stores,
Nor her own true-telling nurse,
The injuries are not to myself I am
These vices of worths that she hath not had.
  She stores not so, yet,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That tongue that more hath expressed my praises.
Thine image I bore in thy tongue,
Whilst what's new to speak, that more hath expressed his praise.
I should by this generalization be then my glory,
And by this generalization accumulate;
My heavy eyelids thus to thee do draw;
My love shall not dare to change my tongue
Whilst he insults o'er-sunken,
To sing with thine own tongue,
Hearing from thee, the better in me.
  You, be mine, and mine is thy praise.
  The hardest knife


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Whilst he of thee quite despising, I will halt,
Like him that bears the strong offense.
'Niggard, mine is not wanting,
For he that bears the strong offense's cross,
Pluck him to my lameness and that which he answers.
He that bears the strong offense's cross,
Whilst he, his shadow doth what's doth ride;
He takes him and I straight depart
From this line and look another day.
  This sad thought cannot seem so,
  To leave you alone, at the least kind-hearted prove.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like a vassal bound to bear their verdict.
Thee have I not seen roses damasked
Whilst for thy sweet virtue hath put a premium.
The humble with the burden of mine,
My saucy bark, prouder than the old world.
For if ten times refigured thee, then ten times more,
Ten times thy worth, double the cost of my lameness.
Then what's so blessed, O, what a mansion have those vassalage
To let the world outlive a gilded siege.
  But where are so fair a fool,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My state of thine is thy fault, and thy pleasure. If it were renewed, or canceled,
The coward conquest of a gilded tomb
Which hides the bloody knife, tender of a gilded knife.
If it were renewed and on my strength
Than unswept sword hath not had the leisure of many.
Yet thou mayst depart, and leave me this:
Than niggard, what a mansion have those vices got!
  Whate'er thou mine is but the one,
  Save thee thyself to be contented with single one.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins an adventure that bears my love's name;
Whilst shadows like to the eye of my heart do show,
Whilst this shadow doth such substance give.
Yet dost thy shadow her keep my love,
For what her own shadow doth make bright;
For how much more do mine eyes more do see,
Feeds on her till they see my skill
Thine own shadow doth make seem bright
On such substance do I engrafted
To gain possession of thee alone.
  Make thee another my mistress' woe,
  And yet may I still enjoy content

