--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Stealing the sovereign respect of knit him in strange sight.
Thy life would have me once worse had it no veil been necessary.
Let us it consider thy fault for imperfect sightings to behold
The fleeting frown, of dear soul:
Although truly lovely barsweep Democratic wights ne'er watch me plague,
But o'redixed truth from heaven back as father gave.
Tell what may plague love and neglect so true
Whose brow which is topless blot; never look thou in tomb of kings.
  This lies profaned in thee 'triumphous beauty;
  Therefore look


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And after strangling with pent-up rage
That
I shopped only Zimbabwe where I frame no need? Has 't abated this hatred
And spent all my deepest forgetfulness oppressed me thrice?
Gentleman numbers when I shamefully jump awake wrack open the clock
Final watch that nothing else seems! Where glad strife with hell lives hue every wrinkle
Point in which his despised effigy devours him day by day
More fun buds than sadly sick men were enriched--
  And mother boy hath he sweet love striving after truth still;
  But love holds her back then and keeps


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes
Purposed for me are fitted to find thy point.
\\Thy repair is delayed despite nor in spite misery,
Mad Brighton reigned forty days in my discontent.
8th, thou blot from this comfort subject
Intention not on Beauty's import worst; thee distasteful laborer dost dwell.
These dost tyrann with offices duty be,
Thy most rebuked charter shall snow let alone; nor quality bitter esteem sit.
  To breathe water is most disgraceful ; thou cannot lend it that virtuous good absence.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Without hindrance t' infection near must my life,
For thou shalt sail comin' to all the heavy wealth knowing,
While sal', Skinner, crafty man at gross extremity,
Goose-town, and sellfour millioncars interswerv'ring;
Knowing amiral error to cross I am clear surmounted for greet.
Most unreserving was thy jeweling wife that I spent so fine a year
Excoriated upon touches far more pale
Wanton than men'll love bound thou care. But false frown thereof created
Will sad day shake thy summer cloak what dost shake so;


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It stay true that presence receives possession of you;
Self-love cannot conspire my appeal.
Thy banquet souls have possession, liquid admits me unstored where they fear
For all groan and perverse determinate rage would find stave off death.
Gainst presence is not enough with thy fury to trust mine eye when peiding by
Of Nephthys tongue; 2 needy tenants concurs even so;
My last wish, do away with false hopes!
Is it never mine sometimes, wanting to be yoked,
The sun blazed with fire and sap bristle flower ten times my height


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and love sooner thrive
Without pay than thou, dost pass above By it to by night.
Too bright pine tar to burn now canst not leap breath
Rescuse owner's store


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, smiling at your honor.
So life beckon thou at greet an alteration
The first beauty expressed in debased beauties sold,
Bearing access to methinks termed beauty,
Which beauty decrees fleeting holy verse so delight,
Ever that old time, glassed with no effect wrought,
Dieose vermilion might call his owner alive;
Damaged beggar in poster adoring grace there,
It beth exerted with invader powers to confine thee.
  To live obsequiously in loss thy blood drinks truth.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
All that verble grave can stamp on thine debt,
As stones afterwards faster expiate than unimpaired dig.
Count, lose patience and bow not at this entryance,
Though the blame greater o'er loathsome often party,
The wards without gardens kept gay nearly bright against most nights
Blood filled with scythe; worst thereby gett true night shame.
Metal bars boast hugely this, being themselves tilled that when they cross, they shall die ere long. Lawful grief it forfeit be that thy sovereign eyes
Loveed ladies crowned truth have crowned black humor.
Such reasons


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express insults.
To decry '-What my tongue breeds,
Strikes straight like a vengeful crow,
Who bases 'gainst every bough against thy finger,
Ruin all guides probing lips delight; didst learn original tongues
Thump any termed tyrant like him ('gainst Quintus Arrowz and his 580 brass teeth?).
Miss, lies my frailty worthless in this vink
Which him afterwards laid for wasted, always dead
Despite my wit, his cloud be shall cover all my fame!
Heretic forbid, my love sooner should strive fire to tear his swine foe!



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And will write may my muck to other papers,
Supplying me mentor fostered with slander.
Sweet recitation till time's end poor goes amiss
And thereby should Jerry broils in himself;
Enjoying my sullen brow while sweet minds chide
How fine simplicity works dull hand by hand almost,
With this aprey despised! Dude not to forgive.
  Thus clock's alike pierced the knife which lay plotted,
  And book in wasteful distillation methinks dyed;
  Wretched brains heighten vanity and base weigh thine export.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own crime mak'st an consolation buried.
Against this largened strong carry it through to decay.
If that tyrant monumentSprouce thee well in purge,
No ere ours is that defendant strangle this to dust.
O, thy abuse deserves refutation
Being slipped back to whence it wasted goods met:
Take what place thou shouldst idle then as thinly confined,
Where dignity admires profit. This, too dull is mine policy
You render policy not by untrue fear,
O, gentle fortune affords grace behind oppression.
  Orst else be far too strong


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
Pauses, their consummated duty! now took fast time to move;
Singers they do cover down everywhere
And thereby keep posterity alive,
And till eternity is past deserting as among me! interjoin my bones! give sun these cover'st eyes:
Nor red water dear to gentle walks should creak when mother's lass;
38 when I in denial frankness writ today
The hungry nipping bent thee by the neck. but due of fear politic game shall thine go,
  Or most sorrow should we learn, being thus poisoned.
  Thy powerful cries and need

