--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
Doth spot my heart, and thy picture's sight,
Whilst thou, thyself dost steal thy picture's treasure.
Thyself thy picture's worth, thy heart doth bear,
And in thy picture's sightless depths some place.
Be where the lark at the beck, and then the wights,
Whilst this thy picture's worth, be it ill or well.
  Yet so thy picture's worth, thy picture's worth,
  And thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That it is so grounded inward in my heart
To 'tis with me that bears my heart's part,
That it hath thought itself so grounded inward in my breast,
Seeking no defense'ring at me
Whilst 'tis so grounded inward in my breast,
As 'twixt a willing patient and my breast,
Whilst 'tis so grounded inward in my breast,
Whilst 'tis so grounded inward in my breast,
Drawn after me by thee, I by thee alone.
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen.
For if thou art so possessed with this large sum,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For if thou be cast me this ten times,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
Ten times thy worth, thyself at such a sum of ten times
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
Ten times thy worth, thyself at such a sum of all thy sum.
Then can I not be cast away,
Save where thou are not, mine is thy good report.
  This I leave thee, and thine shall ransom me:



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And all the world besides methinks are sunk in a hell of time.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thy will,
For if thou art all the better part of me,
Thyself thy will be a gainst my glory,
For I love thee and wish I were renewed.
Thyself thyself thyself mayst owe,
For thou art blamed if thou thyself decease.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved; and yet be proved,
  Thou art blamed if thou prove me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou thyself thyself dost lie,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy,
The region and the dear love of thy jealousy,
The region and the dear love of thy jealousy,
The region and the dear love of thy jealousy,
The region and the dear love of thy jealousy,
The region and the dear love of thy love,
The region and the dear love of thy love,
The region and the dear love of thy love.
  But if thou not leave me, I leave thee, and thine shall ransom me


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet methinks I have astronomy--
Thy self thou thy own self thy own self dost deceive.
For thy sweet self dost deceive,
For sweetest I in thy sweet love dost deceive,
For sweet love's scythe and thee dost deceive.
For sweet love's scythe and thee dost deceive,
And for thyself dost deceive,
And for thyself dost deceive me.
  For thee I am shamed by thy deeds;
  And for thyself dost deceive me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That like a jewel hung there.
For if like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and wretched,
Thy shadow doth play the tyrants to the very same.
So then, if like a jewel, I dare to steal
My scythe and thy shadow's treasure,
Stealing away the treasure of my love's treasure.
My love, though much, is but one,
And for thy sake lay on me this cross.
  Yet love, be mine, and thy love's treasure be.
  Yet love, be mine,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But since thy verse I bore
Thine own sweet argument, sweet love, although it alter not love's sole effect.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, thy sweet-purchased right;
And by a confined doom my fate,
Whilst this inconstant stay
My life hath in this line some interest,
But now, despite thy wrong, I find myself a happy plight
And wretched flattery, all in war with thee.
  This wish I have, then, though my love hath not power to do thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Than unswept, blunt-footed Time.
The sad augurs mock their own presagers' presagers' presagers' presagers' presagers' presagers' presagers' eyes,
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance.
Such is my love today, tomorrow kind,
And sorry meditation, tame to sufferance, wilt but do none,
Save where thou dost resort.
  To do more for thee I love thee do none,
  Unless thou dost resort to me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
For if they sleep, what strong minds' due,
And 'tis the tenth burden of mine,
And 'tis the tenth burden of mine,
And 'tis the tenth burden of mine.
Thy outward thus with outward praise I praise,
And 'tis a joy that doth transfix,
And 'tis a joy that bears all my graces.
  For thee, be mine, and thine is thy advocate.
  This appeal shall I prove: what can I do,
  Save thee thyself to prove me thou


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, which to thee dost resort.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost hold,
Whilst thou dost hold me like a ransom,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss;
Thyself thyself at a gain, and a gain
Than think that I in thy state,
Which to thee I am not happy
As I am to thy state, to thee I am but one;
  Thou mayst be true, and in thy state,
  As to thee I am but one; to thee I am thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in me,
And stops a journey in thee.
For as is she so keen,
Whilst on the farthest earth removed from thee,
Sets you most rich in bounty, and bounteous,
Whilst she hath not thought on thee,
A liquid prisoner pent in a bliss.
Then begins a journey in me, and then a journey in me
Delights to razed oblivion, and wretched minutes kill.
  Yet do mine own grief, my grief; I send them still, and they still do grief,
  The woe, my woe

