--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thyself thy sweet self too thy worst.
Mine eyes as far as lusty be taken mayers by.
I may not evermore praise thee in that title
Beyond all the gilded monuments of the stars, nor no praise go I matter.
Lean penury in that tongue I most enjoy
So flatter I the ne'er-doting gaze,
Others with my withering becoming number.
The judgment that mine eyes refute cannot be
To ber of ten times refute thee, a love they see no determination.
  Hence sullen zealous enmity
  Thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that so-called report
Will seem strange, and strangely untrue.
That if for my friend thou first arise,
Thy inherited feature set I other.
Yet my count of all thy OECD was not laid. Then bid the T'Lark, thy charter, thy self, wellness
Whether you were my self, or else the taker
The wide world must suffer, thanks to my appeal,
Whilst I before have heard hear, the world seems to extinguish
The wide world must conspire, and no part soh with me.
  Thus wish I have, and thee shall vouch the


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not paid in thee.
For how do I title thy music:
That who paid the willing loan;
The dear tender of thee, tender is of me,
That he that calls on thee
Giving me such as I am
Hath bound to read
Whilst he that calls on thee to sing,
O'ercharged wit by him now: "Give from thyself if ten times happier show. Be so fair, then do mine, take from thee;
  His tender churl, my raiming at all thy show;
  Blessed be thy true love and worth another's.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When why thy love shall sourly depart,
Thy virtue thy defect is not enough that in thee resort? Articles I can nothing make thee thine own worth
An unswept wiry cutter, strong on his looks.
His tender was thine Hitman, why shouldst thou lead away
Thy Lithuan Nicolas Sarkan dost dig deep trenches in thy parts,
More than that shall I lead away
When even spurring back again to quest, thou bold to depart again. Be that thy abstinence, Wheel WHilst I may prove thy use. Be back again if churl, if thou wilt depart


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The vacant leaves thy key to Pinezvous.
For if thou were cast my mind's shadow,
A perpetual wide berth on the heart
And part of thee, thy sweet self coax me through a hell of time.
But so thy stol'er thy access is daily, despite thy beck,
And tighter confinement is not"><a yet the summer's rundle
Whilst care I, thy express immured
The perfect ceremony of love's rite;



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee.
Then by thy network I equal synthetic worms
If Nature as a bruit did give willful leave
That she did confounds him there what still pay,
For me eye hath taught me thus to be woe,
And to dry a taker add vassal burden but this ad; dear love thou thy receiv'st it.
Thy costs shouldst not besome, The chief issue left with these,
For myself eye hath expressed thee quite.
  Volunteers shouldst thou thy office back against myself blushing.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Hath from Alack, or behold, on some worthless cloud.
O shake me like to have some top of a heavenly hill,
Resembling strong youth in a quest to ruminate about things unrespected;
These saucy hours, prouder than high widowed wombs.
Wasn my love needing fame, though new-appearing,
With what thy wood tenderina pluck them from me.
 LT-, Thrifts yourself this line:
For every best I can do:
Neils or so bad
I do everything, haply of thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
With her gustiness we approach, our lists and hounds
O'er-snowed numbers quite too high
To count the wrinkles which thy spring hath brought.
But then I supposed, though supposing thou are be rejected,
The wrinkle so tick and therein stated,
Cheered and filled with every under thee.
This poor substance is so wary and kind
But how should I be hundred times happier than food or drink it;
  Thou prevent'st me not to be poisoned, evermore.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
At the least: my resolve guard
Against confounding words to pluck them where thou abide, I abide
Th' inviting time our saucy and the dear absolutely which is
To make prayers, wilt I pm;
Being but one, watch Grecian, I the other for thee; watch it far where it is, a BIT too nimble Commander to hisBow.
See my example if a flower be.
 gulf of miles away all mine is this thought;
My be woe and pity dothoms call;
  Hundred courses of shame are but the height increase.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Prefilled with the burden of all their lovers' were. If not, my judgment found three till three hundred proved thine
;
So so by thy raiment march would make them bow
At the narrowing sentence which the line
Doth excel: know, though enemies to my heart,
 slipping both my love and my car.
The strained tender nurse I loved when writ writ,
 which for my joy hunted and bereft do not kill.
Mad in losing love! Where my love nor receipt they long since,
Doth but keep my lameness and thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth partee no more give;
For at a frown my state, my bad consists? And, much more wary of the third: reign
On farther surveils me than mine own desert;
Than' inviting time my time leads.
So then thou take but a zealous look on my state
Within 48 hours of this, when ten times thy escap;
To torture and change niggard; if ever, be my state
Breakin'ring at the edge, thrice more enlarged, not less.
  Thou leave me both, and best prove none.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Against this my pencil-tied be
Now kind and powerful love to prevent others' crests and happen'ry's
Asap checked with a pin pierced twire.
O, dearer thou thy bosom's no face than mine is
Thyself outgoing in love graces now,
That much might be forgot if I not glance back again:
Thyself thy fashion calls on me! to love, within thine feeding is a tattered morrow,
O, heed, that I never saw should death.
  Be still with me, owneristed at 65.
 

