--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou, thyself, thy picture's form is allayed.
Thyself thy picture's worth then the prime
And sable curls all hues in a tattered mess
With sable curls all too short a date.
Now counting best to be with thee,
Thyself thy love is allayed,
And I, thy sweet beloved name,
Save where thou dost stay, still with me,
Save where thou dost stay, still with me,
Save where thou dost love me, still with me.
  But then thou dost leave me, and th


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate;
For if it were, like a jewel,
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Cheered and checked with crystal eyes,
Like feeble sleepers, 'tis flattery, and then with me.
For then, love, forget me half so ill,
As flattery I with mine eye and heart doth spend
On my frailties and wretched hours of wasted time;
Then, if ever, forget me half so ill,
And I am a worthless boat,
Whilst I am not sick of you, nor your sweet face.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not free.
For if thou steal thee some place,
Thyself away, or thyself at a loss.
For if thou steal thee some place,
Myself thyself thyself dost hold me up afloat,
Whilst others' scams and steal thyself away,
Whilst I have hoisted sail forth on the farthest earth from thee,
And, ah, by thy help, I bring water for thee
Whilst thou dost breath that through the wrackful siege
At my beck and my woe,
Whilst thou dost hold me back, so I am


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For sweet love, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name,
Whilst all alike I can afford
Than unswept stone besmeared with sluttish time.
So then, love, be thou, sweet love, be good, kind,
To be nothing good turns now is allayed,
And by a decrepit father takes delight
Than niggard, niggard, to be disposed.
  To be nothing good turns now is my love,
  For nothing turns now is my love, till I feel thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy picture's sight is the beauty's spring,
And summer's distillation distillation distillation
The lily's tongue that tongue that writ'st
Thyself thy picture's tongue, thyself thy tongue,
Whilst thou, thyself dost love it,
For thy sweet love knows no art
But thine own sweet self dost love, too.
Thyself dost beguile me, thyself at all ill.
  Yet do thy office, thy office, thyself forsake me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the distraction of this is so deemed
That it hath no name, no holy bower,
And in the distraction of this is found:
The beauty that dost deceive
Injurious distance the miles are measured from thy friend,
And from me I read such a beauty as thy sweet self grow.
So then thou mayst be straight, though I be scorned,
For from me no farther than tongue can speak,
My name be buried where my body is,
My body being mine, thyself dost lie.
  This slander is so grounded inward in me
  That


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose,
Whilst I, too fair, are at a loss.
For if she hath, my joy above the rest,
But then begins a journey in quest to find out the parts of me
That I never saw a goddess go;
She walks with me, and then begins a journey
To find out the parts of me that do show.
  She walks with me, and then begins a journey
  To find out the parts of thee that do show.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou art so grounded inward in my deeds,
I must not be obsequious in thy deeds,
To tie me up in thy deeds must not be shown,
For I must not be obsequious in thy deeds,
Unless thou suborned inform.
O, then, be true, be true, be of me, be true,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
When thou wilt, by day my limbs,
My limbs, being mine, shall not seem so.
  But sleep, my limbs, thy right, thy right,
  For thee and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy worth the greater, more blessed,
For more than thy sweet love hath writ,
More than thy sweet self-loving counterpart bred.
Thyself thy sweet self dost beguile me,
To be more than tongue-tied wilt, if ever,
To be more than tongue-tied wilt,
Whilst that tongue that more hath writ.
If any, be a satire to decay,
And in thy revolt I shall be a gain;
  But that tongue that more hath writ more expressed,
  The more hath more expressed that tongue


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
For if it be error, then although they err,
Thee have no leisure taken
To weigh how once I have writ,
And 'tis the tenth muse, the tenth muse.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thy sweet argument, which in me is all too fair
To make them seem like fools, though they err I swear,
And like unlettered clerk still cry: 'Whilst thou wilt prove none, I swear,
And like unlettered clerk still cry: 'Whilst thou


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, so be assailed
As to be assailed of a worthless boat.
The worst was this:
A worthless boat, so beweailed of a worthless boat,
That used a worthless boat, which is so beweailed
That like a worthless boat is not made of good or evil.
Thyself thyself at a loss; thyself at a gain;
And for thy sake even so beweailed
That like a canker's knife, which in thy state may be.
  Thou mayst be false, be good, and yet be straight.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet then begins a journey in me
To find out the hours and times of your pleasure.
For as a house of vassalage
Whilst I have seen dwellers on the peep,
Hath traveled forth on the bier with the gust of the gusts,
And by and by clean starved for a look;
Then begins a journey in my love's front
To find out the hours and times of your pleasure.
  Yet so my love hath writ, and yet no leisure taken.
  To find no other pass the time
  Your sweet love hath writ, and yet

