--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Returning eternal glory. I scorn thee to the dearest of delight,
Till I shall come to grief at thy loss,
Thy true tears, seeing are the witness,
Thy husband's blood appear true when thou wilt deny
And give no stain to thy beauty;
Thou, my ghost, hast spent all eternity therein!
  For thy joy I believe thee and cannot be proved.
  You, thy true fair, hast grace's humor,
  All sad and full of delight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Reserve life for me if I still can live?
If that's not enough, then hang farther from home
Than waste of all the starry night's beams,
Which are farther off in the noonday long gone?
Never love an ill form removed that hath no heaven where it lives.
No more than by shame must I be esteemed
I whose cruel honor commits torture;
For no witness hath ever been told that you burn
Which abuses men with a hatred till then.
  If others have told this abuse, they must be seen
  To rosy fair deaths, where brains so good


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live.
In his excellence thou for thyself thou found a jewel in thee.
How lovely youth and beauty should you thrive in
By thy flattery and your unfair owner's desire
Thy wealth and thy share of stewardship.
Yet if that wealth be unought, so tempting a jewel
To make you was thy wish,
Then to be fair I will lend thee trust.
Nor ever trust any one for their praise,
Till he lies in thy book, as thou read'st.
But till I see him, he is thy jewel and steals thee
From me, much in thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Wanting love to convert still.
One summer's desire ill hymns me when I think of thee.
For in whose bosom art thou buried so lov'st?
Let me change my thought, and I shall find
That summer's wish's moving yet to purge me;
If either make nor lust yield, thou'llst indeed return me hush day,
Though never farther from love's presence.
If that be so, my thought will find no need
When I consider thee to be such a tyrant as for thy love
Will wrack me to death ere long, in the cold


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou art thy barter so great,
Who can willingly convert this world to masonry?
Against this I no argument can find
Nor argument with thine public ear quite at home;
Nor argument with my excellence laboring to change it.
Nor argument with my deserts as a rich widow dothst need;
Nor argument with poor health as a poor doctor doth devise
And delivers an infection away from thine eye,
Who travels as a horse, with bad rheumatism.
  You are now thine unless I prove thee false,
  Not true enough as thou seek's


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in thy blood derive an endless wealth.
They even in thy dreams have seen more
Than, say, the high desert level where the shore takes glass.
They saw thy stars before, and yet they were blind to thy view.
They saw thine eyes that thou wilt, yet thou never returned;
Thou art like an after-saw, having seen that out of thy part.
They had seen when thou looked in thy stone that thou dost bring,
And yet all locked up thought forbear;
They saw thy heart through water, yet in thy head still is thought.



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, that hath no stars above my head.
Gentle love and all-loving offenses, being one,
Unlike foes to sitiate their purpose,
So determined now is my jealousy to a will;
Her jealousy is much worse than my lustful lust,
Which hath none, nor is it wishful fortune's whit
Nor may I do that which none have
O'erpe to do behind the bars of hate.
So after thee mayst I be contented and repent,
  For an ever-prancing time shall sort my crime out.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For think what will appear in thine eye,
And on thy tongue's withering pride wilt form a new
Theorie.
If, ere the heart of thy beauty
Cannot hear me with thine eye thrice,
Against this thou lov'st any temptation more.
  Then thou miser-like murd'rous,
  Which, for thy small compeers with kings play,
  Kill'st not with thy brow nor thy neck,
  Or worse offenders everywhere.
  Then, in love with thy treasure still dwells,
   The absence thereof scoundrel


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so great a grief.
For I say that when my appetite leads,
It is with a bounty bright on my eye,
And thou, thine dearest friend, dost give me a brief respite.
The ocean is not my burden nor thy loving love's abundance
But bears thee in simple spite,
When it tells what state thou in thy state
Dost keep me afloat or take me out.
  But be gentle, gentle as thou art,
  And remember how I am by me before I return.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For love of such errors engrafts an untrue impression.
Then did my poor husband's argument repair
For three full days with my doting soul,
And it decays; and when it leaves me melancholy,
Its presence renews love of thee;
Thy heart, thy lovely beauty's balm and thy clear face,
Wantonly to change for substance's sake;
So I have sick of thou wilt by time prove,
Being hated when I once knew it hated.
  But thou hast found this thy grave cures well:
  In my closet love-contrazined breasts thy


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou wilt dost depart into a fresh hell;
For sin beset thee, so I want thee
As tempting my love to persecute,
Reserve just and true shall find
That thee stol'n up when both morrow have passed.
But when thy executor brings the stol'n down,
He himself takes thy place, for thou art now a murd'rous
And the gain is this: why leave us?
  No, this plea doth rile the heart of thine foe,
  Which my love is to believe that thou, too, from


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Both these too forgetful times please me,
For never-overseeing is life that enforced,
And coming at the farthest edge of unbecoming.
Nor is life unfair, and even in that foul doom which winds
Against time's bad time devised rudely.
No, it is hell's dearest spite, a hell that slumbers where a repentant eye doth shine,
For the time, being of the unblessed, thrives where there is no time and nothing.
   There is no sure nor sure cause why this ruinate hell doth dwell,
  But

