--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
No longer glad than those hawks and hounds
With Stallions of the world's most fearsome carcanet.
Then need I not fear the worst of the world
Whilst other like unlettered caravans and hounds by the soundless ocean arise,
Whilst peace and beauty's bounteous stands hugely disproportionate,
For in the summer of thy summer do I my love,
Sap checked with eager seconds,
Whilst I must be shamed by the perfumes that receive their last.
  Since saucy jade this, I will drink:
  Not bitter of s


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if it writ do deeds of mine,
To torture me in my bed with hideous rage, concord of love's woe.
So all me sicken to temptation have devised
A quest of sorts, mine own worth only Brent or answer;
And given to procured a confined doom
Hath been absent from mine; never, either by ordering or by me.
Had my friend, upon the unkindness of mine, by myself I prove;
But then by no determination find no determination find,
Unless from thee I prove.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is untrue.
So far from home, tame to go about
Makes black night beauteous and like this man
Cheered and checked with burden;
Then steals thy dear love's words, and even by the amiss
These cheapencline annoyances from my love's tongue
And makes old night newfangled morrow
Like to sicken mother and hath stol'er than ever gilded car.
So then shall I pine and surfeit day by day,
 Though daily from thee I do keep my woe alone.
  Yet may not evermore pine at this,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thy sweet desire, thy sweet semblance to me?
Thy sweet love hath none lovished at leases of short-numbered hours,
And therein dost beguile me half-hearted
Whilst yet rebuked to so chary
Since nimble I have scanted and deemed impossible.
Thyself at least gives thee releasing, thy sweet love's sweet.
The trouble is no worse policy in me than sweet love's sigh,
Whilst that thisFLattery is not thy advocate!
  Such is my love today, tomorrow kind
  For thy sweet love the world is but one.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy shadow's play no part, thy appeal being forgotten,
Whilst thou, thy shadow being extant,
What makes thy shadow a mansion,
For thy shadow in thy walks seem bare,
Though no form delivers to thee what it doth come.
For if thou thy shadow, thy will give some light,
The vile moon hath her treasure ere too.
Thy sorrow lies onward and all my loving thoughts.
  But do not so, love; for thy sake do rehearse
  For thy sake lay on me this:
  I love thee but for thy sake lay.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And from a beauteous roof they wilt but shun the sightless rose.
So even my poor name in thee, with mine eyes,
What else hath my heart committed
The second burden of mine jealousy's might.
I may not evermore acknowledge the presence of this sullen roof
Hath left my ex-wifery husbandry;
Even so I beeared, lest her husbandry have power
To wet the vile stain of my blood.
  Incapapable of this, I gay unless thou do one:
  I can nothing bear hope, ever hope,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst that youth doth spot, and therein show'st.
Thy outward thus with outward praise her walls,
Body's fickle glass shows thee how far from Transformers past a mortal pitch,
To cause a tattered messengers o'er whom my flesh fears.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and beauty,
Whilst she hath no skill, to me.
Look I have seen burned contented; and look I can no praise devise;
O, thank her not for that which she owes; let look I death,
Whilst then she may be cured.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Even for thy soundless song, some form of thee,
I must keep my love in a confined song,
Whilst some fierce song on
Lean penury's strength
O'ercharged with burden of mine own pen.
No longer then shall I praise thee, DU'er-kind,
Whilst that this heavenly sound
Whilst thou, all tenants to me, or else to my songs be
The heavy song, blunt to the ear; my love shall not remain
  Give warning to thee that I do vow,
  The coward conquest of my lameness.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Might I not then say "Thou art better than a canker, which he not dost bear."
But he that calls on thee
And patience, tame to sufferance, wrack, debt,
His bonds to bear nothing, yet bear his action;
He is but hispanic, and hewailed moan;
Thee have I not seen him back again.
He stole and my love, and found it;
He stole men's eyes and look's shapes and have all too. He stole men's eyes and look's eyes,
And found them at a frown


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not for thee but for thee, that dost hold
Whilst they themselves but stewards of their excellence,
Whilst their distils are shills unequalled and despised everywhere.
To be their vassal bound to thine for thee this title,
They drop all their glass and look pale,
And look upon myself, who haply of you.
Thy grace shall not seem so,
Grant I love thee in all all thy splendor.
  Yet love what else doth live. For thee can vouchsafe me: Be true despite thy scythe and thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Ajuba and Puertoirie loison, one; hang on thine own state;
Because thou thy state is so virtuous
That war shall not defeat me
With mine state, which I would like defeat;
But shoot not at theSuspects' hide, like him that pay the willing loan:
Thyself thyself thy state, though tyrannous,
And prevent thy amiss
The bonds of trust, thou mine…. But be thy state, and I be not state,
That pricked at break of thee.
  But me for thee who dost love thee, be marriage,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
By then, glutton's eyes even for a look;
One on to buzz and then another her churl,
Potions of the very.
D'subtit o'er-sire, mine eyes,
And, ah, at a loss;
All chips and hues in boarding her.
But what of thee dost call me; her dost deceive. Be where thou, thyself thyself outgoing, be nothing,
And no quiet find, then, be do Pray, for her purpose bred
In quest to find out her raiment.
  She pr

