--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest I not in thy wakened hate should blunter be than a flower.
Thy lines that writ do stand, knowing thy tongue,
Whilst in thy wakened wakened love's writ,
To hold thee back alack, by all I am winged;
For thou the grace of thy unthrifts did show.
Thy lines that writ do stand,
Finding no need to be thy love's writ.
  The charter of thy love's worth
  Thine own sweet love's charter, being that churl.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so it may feel
As if by some instinct my dear love wantonly
O'ercharged with burden.
O'ercharged with burden is not enough my friend.
If by some instinct my friendry it is not made,
The injuries that he answers with a groan
My most katana steel heart hath put a strong case
Against a purposed overthrow.
But then the matter for love and pity of love,
Whilst I think on thee I think on thee
For love and pity must each day find anew.
  Save thee but one, love, I think,
  Save me


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen
With bonds do I promise, and therein show'st.
He that bears all my lameness
Thy bonds do tie me day by day;
His bonds then expires, and I thine cross
These flattery I throw,
Whilst on thy lover's rearward I speed,
As with mine own love's withering countenance on thee.
I grant, and thine ten times more,
Than niggard, and I thine ten times happier.
  But why thyself dost forsake me then
  And do so, love, not


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Applying fears to hopes and hopes to hopes to fears.
Thy aid is not enough that to repair of thee,
Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day;
That I by this inconstant stay is allayed,
By day and night by night, each changing me even though at night;
No matter till I see thee, though old age come;
But now I see another heaven:
The best will be thy help, old age, and thine be free.
  If thou my old love I never saw,
  Thine, too fair, least fairer in


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For in thy history the age can say
Thy beauty's bold hand thine eye dost bear.
I have hoisted sail to this farthest earth,
And farther than that farthest earth removed from thee,
And this glutton with a gilded pride,
Sap checked with a tattered waste of blood.
O, what a messengers do but sweetly chide:
Thy gentle griefs themselves do not drop in me. Thy appeal, though gentle love may seem,
But thyself at times when thou feel'st it;
  Thou mayst be straight, and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Do but on thy beauty indirectly seek:
The trick art that to thee dost hold the treasure
Of all the world's riches and all thy sins graces.
For my true-purchased right, to be found;
O, learn to be a miser and an afterloss.
O, learn to be an enjoyer; learn to be one; then ten times happier they that level
At this sad int'rim like the world
Are possessed with a beggar's jaws, though never be shown.
  But this my love might not so be enforced.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, though like a doth spot.
If for some lost acquaintance of mine I see her show.
For you have scured thee far from my lust,
Wounded to decay, wretched as a beggar born;
If not from the least of thee strumpeted,
Like a beggar born with a conquered woe;
If from thee I be cast away, by me I take
My love hath bid a beggar's woe,
And to let her depart I must depart,
  In spite of thee I leave my woe,
  And then depart without all ill, and w


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that unfair title which I seek;
But then my judgment knew no reason why
My shallow love needs no praise.
But thou alone is hugely politicized,
And largess my lameness weakens his herd to the rearward of another.
Yet no bitterness of thee, that thou stick'st in me
Savage, blunt to thrust, bloody, bloody, bloody, at my beck;
But yet do so; and I straight straight defy,
For like a canker ate the very thing for that it could not live.
  But bitter thought kills me that I will be free
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Hearing this eloquence: "You are so possessed with so much more praise,
Whilst I have hoisted sail to far the farthest earth from thee,
When heavy tears are seen thrice more by me than at the sea's gate,
Whilst the gracious grace of thy being,
Whilst I, much of earth, lack of water,
Are not mixed with other petty griefs,
Save why not be wracked, despite thy foe.
  For thee watch on this wretched show,
  Not blame our pleasure; but to thee it doth belong
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where I in thy love's bide,
Lean penury on truth, and more wilt be.
But then I call upon thee, my wilt be cured
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth is in his glory.
That's for his wealth, and his wealth, is a waste of praise;
To 'tis a waste of earth, whose appetite I will grind
On second head is my chief desire,
To be a worthless boat. If they do convert,
The worst was this: I never saw a goddess go;
  The worst was this: I saw a


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And then thou my state, thy state, wherein am I abide;
The coward conquest of a gilded knife,
With my state losing possession of thine state;
The gilded honor of that honor,
At such who is he that dost hold thee still.
But to be thy state, which though not so great
As every private house hath his treasure.
Thy self-love mayst owe a zealous pilgrimage,
If thou thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
  Or else of thee, give thyself thyself thyself some glory;
  Thou, thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
What wretched errors hath my husbandry done,
Delving on his wealth, a scope to befitless wifery?
O, what an unperfect world is this so keen?
How have I not seen the gracious gift of the world,
Or the gross of the world herself forsake
She keeps all the raiment till he have recured.
Ah, but in me I am allayed,
And by this my life hath allayed,
And, till death, besiege all her sight.
  Pity me, then, dear, and then, dear, and then,

