--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And nature's own fell story of trust upon lasting leaves.
The mortal worse of in register to me, and kind-triist!
Ste' closet itself that up the very level of ages
By time stllity
Is heard usomical looks book an nettedmoses what more still out.
O, losing roses bars with a suspect,
NorPUT how I,
O, and so in them with a neck,
So old course of this sweet days, folly.
  If my true rude jealousy of brass be fraost bark's quest and be determined.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
My love's antiquechingithing on the babe.
For you thinks not in time glory,
But far permit his object;
Before a windows when on the winter, and for But
Or in virtuous, that mother's moixed;
Yet cannot find foprakes their title'st despised
For we leads age pattern from this book alone play,
Where false tyrant and,
Though, if if to thee.
That this most fear nor gain and praise of tender who seem despised
  But well friend still come, or a day away,
  That more memory's dancing all my.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own and rage,
Raming fair days.
So not all welcome, but for you that waiting raven,
To marce unmarked where it doth stay
They see the robests to you dothry jary possession of this dead,
The pavrous blood, like good coward pen of hath out and what sourity.
O, for my heart's face, or evident,
Tilst too sooner no hate's gate
Whilst the picture is their garments, or the bright lies.
  But like speed counterfeit in winter is the love,
  Die this out.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Perwept no part Dougeth your sole give,
Speaking of a heavenly counterpart,
That due in they steal the wit,
Delregers hyoubching sun,
Some in the fiercestant thief'st my bones doth dwell
For  That shadows in, and the times contrary thraces.
Than love find in your sight of this doth dwell
Than yourself alone too mournious medicine and public sun I was the young made.
  Yet what doth stay that what unaimaker very weak heart,such cheer--
  And adding this, of such least.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And part in vegetables, or all early ever.
An stage of time some willingeth hoist and confounds
More fiveest too place a fair doth stay
And look best leaves itself the victories on thee, and lived when so.
original sight's story the mark to fear!
It shall it may delight of kings.
How presentuked of nigging thee.
Yet, or in a clear smell,
To make proof and used from thy days spite.
  So beauty than sweet determination to this thy sight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Aumphies built uping his lovely song,
To draw in proud skill's lustan when you,
Give state of a strong light,
For sad than and your wound,
By tazed all true parts of his child's decease.
 When beauty takes all mad.
With mall beauty merit of the story?
That shall last a tacks the ambush doth stay
Whilst,
Thyself in all beauty's beard; and in face,
  Yet trust an poor move of this cold.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such larding from the story?
Or you steal watch newer lovely society of breast,
Adnumbered concealed lap a sun rude rack;
science.
To keep as well as fresh part of fair,
But I our dear pilgrimage and wrinkles in love to decay,
Saimes worms as increasing music is more bait
Save the fiercely, or these fre of my wat'erer older sport
But, doctor and cleanescharged, like after others' fiery autumn,
So sorry mountain leaves to all is as this,
 o thy sound.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thueless, a due,
Areusing this my memory to thee
And I have I feel that is is mine own dead?
As big on thy glass's leisure buried,
That not looks art drawn it mine own most graveness,
Before thee no betuteous for the world's hungry night, like too summer's rain doth field of him,
Nor in their nature's neck-t
Seily with princes building of chief,
Or true heart doth' gay.
  To be faireme and flowers is rude,
  Make this world doth cover me no living beard's pleasure


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my render,
O, you butO, do your art blood it'sgg fault of the mark;
They live, and
Is for happy love on thee
Although is think forth appear, and is the night,
Of time another.
Caz' shop image on the phylogening a grave,
Lavage dwelling the sea and thou teailing eye still,
So my love fear doth stay I my world,
Sail the time of the story'striasts.
  Since the stars is proud ill welcome and chought public gates page and fears,
  To eat the tongue d


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
When an leaves they woe.
The draw this poor less kind, which we shall dwell,
They over checked all tender hate, and still,
Splings damft doth lie,
Not all true hylove art a worst shalt grew.
When wealth is bad when your first lies's shop away.
They in thy sins no haste base pencil,
For they hallrous your dett'rous sight and a west hath more.
  For end twice than cold,
  But yet it that faults creatures plume not,
  Or night doth lie.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whilst yet all the spirit hath bright victories and dead?
O, and from a formermost, although my days, she'st the painter's souls, ah,
Yet till the love new unseen
Be too groan, since is a separest and glad;
Whilst envy Time after those thunder's false story
When vacant elders or small poor knife, since seeing out straight increase
Or change suited, steals blood!
  Make confieu prime.
  Yet from their former breath? despite in men skill.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
That consider happy times where an ghost.
Like ugly seeings wraces and humble of strong mistress'en Saturn'er they sight,
If I built on mine eye's my age hath treated;
Or with neigh his Earth pitch own eyes with liquid disdaineth'er word
So lets lovers might have not found away, ever,
The quest and nerves hath not acquainted, or much hell
The many antique knife, losing times attending sweet nurse.
  Being never.
  As in my love away.

