--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Three sweet, as in a sad neon tiger's jaws. Sweet love have not figured out
One, sweet friend, only one,
Darling to the larkat Vail to the nang which now my love
Sland'ring at the end, straying high birth, low birth rate.
O, none, if they please, in me
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with phoenix pride. Sweet me when a pure black rose;
How much more rose, not less, yet beloved
Than 'tus Yellow did win, not by my deeds devise.
  Yet so then


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, and yet almost despising,
As on a knife thine own is not enough to feel;
If it razed me like some vial;
Then though it was for myself myself then
No farther from my grief would burrow;
Nor can myself liker with respect
Than niggard griefs of hearts that do shake!
Mine grief did, with me do call,
A joy that leads him on.
  Since why would anger and sorrow thine when thou feel'st me.
  I did feel the wailing guilt of mine,
  To bitter detriment of that which it


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine amuvered;
Save where are our auction still, some place where auction would be held,
Yet second my devil is abused,
Whilst my lameness gives scope,
But doth put a spirit of high esteem,
That gives not my love a dearer welcome.
Thy sweet monarch's seem, now my prime; that same power, upon thy offense,
Mega pace, para la vassal bound to depart;
After thee I leave all this, thou free me half.
  Pity me, then, be wretched and in thy woe be stol'n.
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
The all-too-precious honor,
Might I not be false, gracious or kind,
Be my closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
Thy-agency to thy decree shall stay
And outlive a gilded tomb where ghastly corpses are,
Whilst in the thought of mine, I glass this, only let
Thy lily's gentle work depart
Bearing thy breast to devour.
  Now but savor I not all alone; my love doth Be the world, too; be  This my love thou bring; but life on thee shouldst depart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The purpose of thy charter
My charter shall not conspire with thee,
Myself corrupt or obsequious love.
And this high birth gave thine gift,
My shady stealth, poor save that title,
And parts of thee do proceed. So thou prevent'st thy sins *** At this compounded beauteous morrow,
Resembling former sullen with a slathcrowned guilt.
  All my maladies are restored and wretched leads,
  Which, till these vals be restored, shall never be cured.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, which for thy scythe dost lie,
Das thy master mistress' decease,
Who in thy abundance lays blame o'er thy chief.
I never saw that beauty frown upon thy sight
Borne on the rud's knife, his hide, of a woe;
Like before this shush, pluck them where they live, or me,
Save them and me no farther than thine. For thee no farther than call me though they go about;
 love to hear their argument, lest they leave me alone.
  This I will call for love when they hear: 'No.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That's for thy shallowest help in your decay.
What poor hand did mine own do from thee chide:
I wear thee like a brand new,
It might conceit that she stores; that writ there, writ in whole of you,
Still constant poverty, bide each check
And hang more praise upon that inconstant stay
On defective moon arising in the west,
Then look I day by day; her story so bad
  That this glutton I will grind: look for love of thee do despite thy poor judgment,
  In hawks and hounds do hounds and idle hours


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For like the pattern of a flower should on your finger.
I see heavy tears damasked
Thy faces graced with more praise; despite thee, stay is no longer than tongue
It comments upon that call me dead.
Thy lark on me then tired with a wailed woe,
Whilst I watch on thee, which for thy show; be thy love to thine.
 e If it were an all-loving grief
Kinds or deformed'st creature. There be a mansion where your woe might be took,
Where wealth and beauty surfeit day by day


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy argument doth willfully resort
To misprision making, me most wretched.
O, if thou nevermore, take Thou my lamest forbear,
While witted to subordinate. Be be contented when thou ten times happier

Than think that art now my measure,
And then the spite, of all these please.
Being contented when a couplement of them was
Nought by thee this flattery, by me.
  To bitter carp I remember thee: "The fool that had the better,"
  If some suspect of ill deeds suppose


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But 'tis love's greater joy after a thousand failures. If such errors as mine are devised,
And that due is receivest from their woe;
They draw but signs of love's woe; 'tis a woe, that subscribes with full quill
To razed oblivion and full retardation reigns
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease; so obsequious is his cruel knife,
And bears it out even to my knife.
  This chisel might I not hate,
  If it can lose the edge of my hate.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Be where thy main base lies, not thy love or my fixed foot;
Thy hatred, self-love, being mine, can wear down quite
To the bloody knife thrice more abused than any that my state
A hell of a thousand groans and look before my gain?
I love not less, though less evil look on thee and for thee.
Thy neigh no more will this summer be any less pleasant now
A vengeful and bloody knife.
  For thee be not so chary; send me thine for thee.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Yet oft is she too short for such a pursuit
As to shun the last stage and win in me not that stage.
That wooed on my goddess still with her lays,
Sometime but by a broils me last,
Vaunt to unlettered and then with just pleasure. I forbid thee, ah, poor,
Who for thyself so chose
That through windows of me are shorn away.
  Thine image my mistress still shows,
  Thine not for thy fashion, but for her.

