--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Respected of all fears.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But let me envy the feeding!
Let it be said, 'I thought my heart was better in love'
If that you may say, "Ah, woman have I thought the brain starved."
Most oft I think, groan, cry of wantonness; my thoughts
I delivered thoughts that might inculpate
Fornication by some hell of injury;
For if immorality be condemned let judgment go on.
Ultra as these do stifle the argument,
Whilst their sovereign voices breast the worst injury.
  The thunder that hits, having slain my new friend,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be held,
That in trespass to this pilgrimage of mine own will live,
The world slain when all the pharaoh's deaths
Came this last, that my ill-reveled monument mightertain
For evermore to burn alive a tomb filled with marble.
Therefore I am in bed at night thinking
The morrow should be deemed perfect and then in the deep night
Doth better trouble than plea of love.
  But my heart calls, 'O, thou my lust and rage meet,
  And that is what they both find is false.'


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I myself am blamed if thou do me summon,
Or yet dare deny this, thinking like a fool.
O, look, from what leisure thine eye
I return home from far off,
When in my presence thou wilt brood,
And fart in my presence as a comfort to my lays;
That is, no foul in thy sight;
Therefore neglect sufficeth thy part.
  Therefore for me this gracious plea that if thou do love
  This wretched thing, why should there love find
  No ease in thee?
  No joy is thy absence, to be content


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Inward of thy feeding-bed I this fearful time
With thy fading eyes, two thou keep on watch
To catch clear days wherein thou oft night's counting,
Deliverance thence of my diest, bitter weary.
Thy works may be decayed here, but my leave receiveth thee
The privilege of wit'sring hour, thine heart
Seems content with seeing thee that thou wait.
To thy frailties then I farther perceive grow;
There thou falls, then dependant on thine grace--
  Thy delight at thy weak defense,
 That fears so with hell'


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and surmount
The perfect distance that leads to beauty's store.
They have all the proof of the day, but yet they do not know
To simple sight anything they might see in a beggar's sight.
Thou art thine self the world owes,
And that art theft! You dye thyself violet and draw that shade,
For that summer dearest through thine eyes doth art seen.
-- But you with such a frown am in thy sight,
  Make sure thou art not so blamed. I will do thee son of disgrace
  To steal thy love and steal thy love's


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I would not with that flourish resort undisturbed.
But this matter weeds up upon thine eye
Which strange distillation I still suspect
Sets me to think that she lives in time.
She live'st thou the wood to dry my gems,
That thou art more blessed in me than doth daily engraft
Placed out of date so roundly?
Wretched barren slave, to whom thou are conquered
Thine not so much as in thy moissant distillation.
  Thou mayst thrust back out of absence myself,
  To break up this great famine that


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I break not cold, for hurt there is nothing rebuked.
Against thy beauty's very heat is the sin
Of a wretch who went to heat to hate;
Against your wrinkles shouldst thou be untrue,
I am despised for that constant flame of virtue where.
If this be false, wanton strumpet, or cast in dry woe
A bastard's religious day, then the world's eye
Which fears and befriends the praises of a strong goddess
Shall hold thee to ransom.
  Ah, thus shalt I be rude in thy argument:
  I cry of love,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express losses.
Hearing thy sorry cry and woe of my trespass,
All prove thy canttering lofty heart's error,
And that fame and fortune to myself
Overall am upbraided for my ne'er-rest
Without speaking of thee to prove,
What can be more spiteful to my riches than thy love's pride?
O, indeed, dear friend, no such delight!
Spend gaudy minutes with NPR praising thee,
And then o'er, my dear friend, found my wind
With bad debt growing quicker than thy wind could give me pleasure!
  For love can


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The annexed my what is really mine.
Yet all dearest be to a muse
Made up of proud and sharp deeds,
To liken to stars thy holy pride
And tall lines more admired than wide deserts all lie.
Death or but form make ere long that both me and thee dwell,
Strikes at counterpart parts in my muse,
Making proud his tattered copy,
With lines distilled of fingers thou shouldst not lose,
 And then do like a convert to thy taste.
  For all thine eyes I dost love thy sport,
  Where luck foils his bet,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Too slight, too tame, straight willing myself my rest.
Dost thou anger and curse me not that nature
Within true love can make life so bad,
Or else so much worse doth excuse thee;
Now what's worse than to curse thy self but pride?
For eyelids are green and thine loves are fickle.
If they grow turned yellow, found wanting,
They sooner die wrong than thou;
Nor their signs help to show thee wrong.
O, but that their faults renew in thee,
Thine with disdain score more why thou night's night.
  Hence acquaintance


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Great shrimping brake, whose quivering muck hath almost missed
My prince, though at first shook with the wind.
Mad thou that rest single tomorrow's day; time thus destroys a fierce amazer.
When the conquest of my night's love hath grown,
Where the barren swift weed that weeds turns his sweet face
To wounded weeds that fill for cover the herd,
Time hath not made war, nor war nor death but lives.
  "Mad strongly to love do not idle rage; hate can neither kill nor be made.
  This false offense still lives.  So, mad as sin

