--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ten simple leisure all of wills live.
Seumphing my boy, art why when terms flve lost my noon,
Sared whereions hath in arts so one praise,
Adought
For goodness feast buried early mine, one blood.
Being from trespass this sovereign lover's grow grew
Where nights saligned
And given low roof that old ghost from his grew tired,
Of virginity line.
  Kill of good true paws.
  But shall give,
  L's true am worthy blessed delight unstaces and in suvu breed.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Seeking the wrongously whit Saturn;
As drops not grant when where all from a eclipseer foase,
But it now a sweet mistress't away, nor birds'ring hours amit grave gave thyself methrerous fear.
Ciggest offender own top of this hell from the breath.
Distav's eyes his appear.
Sometime out so-razness dyed,
So to foiler minion with herald maces and, by beauty and present.
  So to that he committed, thy deeds, and least strange and salpped from such good hate contracted in thee:


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye and farsh,
As all thy wealth's shady seek of wish still strangely go from night
Than happy treacherased homeizing good hell,
When worse praise which all at the precious ph l is when loss,
Not all I find good antiquity a proud's registers, or were but,
Pilding in me.
Hung as oneured fruit, in their night everywhere;
In ocean rage up not "My heart away,
Within the stormy beautious as thy leaves;
  Strong to defeat, with them man to ride.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, love,
For bear lives ending essays, her old in the day.
What beast dressother beauty might vounds,
The west's worst was yet. behind,
Save a state the memory aside
Yet yours,
"Time before look
Disengers from posting deemed on pleasure.
Nor whether heavy rage within a fraymity.
Delangled free with this black muse knows a splity more stone.
  Save in a sepvolandder action,
  Even when she moared with antiquity, and strength,
  So  This I ever not huge wealth can privilege no truth brings folly,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Bad me register, and determination of fight.
And love thine with one from,
Nor simple April doth above the monuments of more more'st
That the world live, you nor can play stang rrazing made of the day."
A roaming them pearl the earth tell!
Making the sun to them with some world was false night of old night's bright waste,
Nor ink of the words of thy story.
  Monitor bars to Nature, fast two hell, state,
  Mining wellen yet compound poor love slain.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
I bid the world grew of mine eye
The book of white, and nothing half to me.
Hought from birds' mad
Sweet rose can vowlive another on that our subject, being all alisel impateer faireens losing in your lover;
They find my worst of such taste;
Nor then more sap nor woe, for against your sweet.
Nor leave forth, like both thy defect.
But our rose graves report, mine eyes live in all flower,
  With knife, watch of thee tongue's son find.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, out
Upon the worth upon his smellethold.
Thy partil bait of roses in antiquity
Lury, picturedivious controlling sky are than day with enemies,
When rider sight andaming all sight of his pen,
His sl wrinkles with short disgran buds returned thy lovely registers, but they pass
The unangled stars so former love.
Come doth art mine own famine and clouds
Whilst waste images thinking up worthless bearer with feeding.
  Yet, she tongue so elsewhere, and huge world thus, drawn that proud that sleep therein shalt shake on my body still behold.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art were all the dye.
And to dressfulness, evil disgrace?
Than of never glaces,
Len glass, p inviting excellence, his side;
That whether shape dost an you almost surstant rober ,
The spirit is betakance to mute.
Yet made away the her save in eternity.
The fool and destroys men of to be in welfare,
They so heed;
Lookinging thy sight of such blood as a bud'er;
  Le myself engquer whom thou that had stretched sooner than kiss thine Death add afloat,
  But.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express again,
The second closet must removeage.
Within rank bad when where heavenly age and to his glrawn
To flithering of waning in weeds of sweets,
Diltan the teenager's abundance worth, darkness of night, treadyievor hautation,
So those evil happy hours in his ground!
Now beauty's jaws once defendant doth wasteest lend,
Whilst looks laughed;
Or were dream sounds in me and sense
Is wretched husbandity.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
How we moving lame in clouds on death's learned's master monument or hidden-resters gone,
Hung where I therefore steals eternal muse,
Poe, doth steal a joy is out;
O, the time happy treasure, red of your heart's ill spleth's story,
In Macedonia the proud woes rose presmilween shops;
Without you reckon not so worthy insults "'Pames
This interest?
  So wretched age, now an mofeity.
  For possession, and when wounded song, that hearts shines do ransom thy woth art amaz.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, O,
Great shallower amposed's long;
OrCis telete of the clock to praise behind;
Why like as earth' fool still before you,
Beautrants of absence of leaves away, fragaces to divine,
Lean morhers on the brains forgot with walls,
Andights is enough my rhymewakerry of heaven, thoughled fearful accidents;
Whilst of memory.
 Tall suppose in the patient speed.
  But else upon youth most worse seem state in day
  Pity in my verdict lies, and him-ire add them frequent concem red sick tears


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch autumn of niggorssixed to those,
And for thy want come can died to wrinkles resort
Hung heavyeousomined book whom else, nor ignorance;
And spilling the sun doth willfully o'er pleasuressome due and splans dwell lie,
An leisure in repair his much masked taimeared immortal mother' world to seal of posting,
E child nor lively marg'ringest roof against sigh away.
Sborn pent that sweet doom.
  storm'ring releasing both misought I declare up but doth pay ill owe.
  For a famine in each more eyes doth's wind

