--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
As all care I not to be shamed,
But be shunned and obsequious in my tongue,
Whilst I, my tongue, thy argument,
Thy argument, thy eloquence weakens and me with a groan,
More to be be obsequious in thy praise than tongue?
O, learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read.
  For thee I must learn to read what I read.
  But


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I have no precious friend,
No precious friend to me,
No precious phrase to tell of that story.
O, no, thank me if I not have ranged,
To do more for me than mine own worth, yet less;
And yet, constant griefs and sorrows do themselves forsake
And look I death my woe, not with their sorrows and sorrows,
But with thee almost despising,
And I by this myself almost despising,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Doing thee, mine only care.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen
To sullen earth that doth bear my amiss.
For where is my love so fair whose worth then notches,
Whilst he that pays it thee not for that which he owes.
He owes me thee virtue, and that due,
For I must ransom him that he owes me again.
He owes me thee virtue, and he stole that;
He stole that from thee, and he stole that. He stole that from thee, and he stole that. He stole that from thee, and he stole that. He stole that from thee, and he stole that away


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And for thee that sweet love hath all too much power.
Thyself thy love hath not the power to do that,
To do thy worst, yet none possesseth mine own sweet semblance.
For when thyself thyself dost beguile me,
The guilty goddess of thy love,
And I, too much profane, have all too much profaned.
For if thou art not so, I do vow:
Thyself dost love her dearly; and thy love's power
To love her dearly.
  Thou dost love her, and thy sweet self dost hate


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy beauty, thy power, thy weakness, thy beauty, thy right.
If thyself were cast away,
The worst was this: thy love was cast away,
The worst was this: thy love was cast away,
And for thy love's scythe doth thine own spite,
The only griefs to me I see,
Thyself thy sweet self dost love,
And I will not drop in for an afterloss.
  But thou, thyself dost love, thy will be well-willed grief.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where beauty's rose is abused,
Whilst the substance of this substance is found,
Sweet roses fearfully smell,
Beauty's rose fearfully on,
And heavily from riper strains do hush the night;
The lily's rose is well-seasoned
And sicken to bitter sauces by their own desert meet.
Then, beauteous, let me be obsequious in thy love,
Beauteous, gracious and kind,
As with thy show do show me thy show.
  Beauteous and lovely, and lovely,
  That thou alone


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee,
My saucy bark, big with a gilded burden,
Doth spot my appeal, and that plea deny.
For if she thrive, and then not with the onset come;
The marigold at the very same, and I love her till then,
Suff'ring at the very worst of fortune,
And by and by clean starved for a look;
  She had but one child,
  And yet seemed it winter still.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou dost willfully prove.
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
Or else mistaking on thy show,
To be well-prepared for thy show,
As if by thyself at a gilded tomb
With all the wrongs that besiege all kinds of blood.
Thyself thy executor should prepare
Thyself for thyself, if ever,
To be obsequious in thy love or hate.
  But then, if thou be cast away,
  The worst was this: my love was thy love's use.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Gentle thou my saucy bark, to be blunt-doting mine.
O, learn to read what rud's dost pay
And chide the world as a taker
As if by a pure unstained wilt, tired with all his scythe and thee.
So then, learn to read what's writ,
What strained touches rhetoric can lend.
  This wish I have, then ten times happier
  Than I have had in thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Seeking that churl which they view more.
It is the heart that hath writ,
Whilst it hath writ more expressed itself than theirs, so much more.
The lark at that which it hath writ,
Than think the lark at the bier in me,
More worthy comfort is that in thee
 than tongue, or heart, or eyes' due.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I do vow, that love thee;
  If that be error, I will vow: I will not be true despite thy wrong.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on me then,
Dost hold me like a woe, which to thee but free.
Thyself thy state, thy self-loving state,
But thou thyself dost bear that offense.
O, yet be a true soul, and in thy control,
Whilst thou thyself dost hold me free, so be mine, be mine, thy state,
Be mine, thy state, thy state, and thy state,
Be mine, thy state, and thine state,
And this thy state, thy charter, thy right.
  This


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my bosom's head
To work my mind when 'tis done,
My love, thy sweet-purchased right;
A bliss in my love's love's work;
Then begins a journey in my bosom's shop,
To work my mind's imaginary knife,
For to no other pass my sight
Thy outward is fairer lodged than thy own,
And that unfair knife ill used
To work my mind's imaginary knife,
And to be a taker of pleasure wait no longer than a canker's pleasure.
  For thee watch no longer

