--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath I seen dwellers on such bier-sunken faces
Whilst I myself, myself, my sovereign, do not know the face
Of every tongue that I more enjoy
Than this glutton in me that tongue that more hath more expressed.
I love thee but one, but one, single,
Whilst yet this flattery I find:
Thy sweet argument against myself is thy gain;
  But, like a sad slave, I never more will grind,
  For sweet love and pity of thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So far from home into the night doth stay,
When like a willing patient have I seen
Hath put a spirit of a woe,
Whilst I have seen strange hours to crave,
For nothing turns to me I do know,
Nor from your sweet thoughts control my feeding;
My most true sorrow lies onward and my woe through the wrackful siege
As I am all frailer and wretched,
But wretched minutes kill me that I do not kill.
  This policy, though never, shall ever be:
  The worst was it, that wrought me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not free.
For freezings now my only hope,
The owner hath no more to complain,
Than niggard, the raiment of the world.
He owes me virtue, and that repose,
For why can my lameness so poorly be broken
To mar the audit of thy lameness?
No, let him be obsequious in me
As subject to time's hate or to time's hate.
  If he have ranged, and do anything,
  Save him thou dost break me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To be vile than tongue-tied speaking?
Ah, speak of me when thou wilt,
That like a lamb to be receives his praise,
Whilst he insults o'er-snowed and speechless
More than tongue-tied than tongue-tied Wretched in the mouths of thy sweet self-loving tongue.
But, be tongue-tied and speechless,
And by their wills count bad what good turns turns to be.
  So thou gav'st me, and my poor deeds grind.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For what a mansion have those vices got
That the world should keep open wide, where they live, and then their lords and their lords' presagers live.
Thy self thou thy sweet self dost love,
And then thyself shall be a part of me,
Whilst other petty griefs that besiege all kinds of help,
But those with thee are much more keen,
Whilst thou alone possess'st me all kinds of help,
But yet be most keen on thy welfare, so be hell, be it ill or well.
  The world well knows, but not the


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when they see that beauty lack
Whilst their lust for lust's sake doth seem bare,
And they that level of praise, which they perceiv'st
Thy friend, in thy vision they see'st a greater purpose.
So then they wilt be out of their woe,
For when they see the first blush of the girded queen's eyes
And her semblance appears on their show;
Then in thy beauty they all their beauties wear,
So they for their lust look but at thee,
But what's so bad that thou mayst be free?
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For she hath all too many adulterate eyes.
That tongue that calls her name,
Whilst yet, like a jewel,
She stores not to the lily's chest where jewels are hide,
Or like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Like feeble moon, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Whilst she stores not to razed oblivion,
But sad meditation, the goddess of love,
Delves the parallels in beauty's world and all her lies.
  She stores not, though I steal,
  As she stores still, like a beggar.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou wilt, if ever, willfully,
Wound me like to be obsequious in thy praise.
Then, if ever, be true, be forgot,
That what good turns turns eyes for eyes, or eyes for souls,
Canker is in my tongue that my argument
Doth teach that to me what to speak.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ,
To love, forget me quite.
  To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire;
To be so possessed with woe and woe
And to thy sweet-purchased right do contend.
Such is the time that needs must be
To teeter with the time and thoughts of woe, to render,
Save where I may not evermore acknowledge ye;
And yet love him that calls on thee.
  But if he can please me I am to shun him out;
  The worst was this: my love was thy sweet love's love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For 'tis the heart that writ large,
For 'tis writ that over.
So then I dare not get a son
Whilst thou, like a worthless boat, are not,
Beak I am the tenth burden of a worthier pen;
And like a sad slave to a confined doom
Sap checked with a tattered morrow, so of you,
I like you, though my saucy day of happy hours,
And, like a sad slave, I bewailed of such murd'rous rage
And wretched day by night;
  For days of goodness do I love


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy self thy state is not enough that which thou send'st from thee.
For it is so grounded inward in my deeds to pry
That in thy hours and times of pleasure thine state,
Whilst yet to times of pleasure thine own state,
Like to set a form upon desired change.
O, change thy thought, change thy thought, that I change my thought,
Thy state is thy better state, so wretched.
  Yet change thy thought, thy state, thy love,
  As thou, mine, yours, mine is thy good report.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But that wild music hath no leisure
To do with that which she hath writ.
O, no, sweet love, mine is she so keen,
Whilst sweets and beauties do themselves forsake
And take a breather of the ocean,
Whilst, ah, theirs and the rich world,
At a sourest by the wealth of their self-love,
Save where they are, so blessed
That I in this alone will do none,
Save where they live, and do themselves forsake.
  For nothing can speak, 'tis true' that men like thee
 

