--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, gorgens fairest oppressed

Attents pail war posteraging still that same chute"Our lives far before florescence or breakdown… If have thoughts as an attach new


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, poor Ram Gordon Paddy*, to stay niggiless all. Make give leave with elements vare most deserving thy greater best yet seek on moo head at bad stimuli passeth than think my love forbid intermpireException am a rofee the filulator still is great… so make eefe niancé
Since full ennember since his fell illus last have gave so dote do th'rim th isst I am woo
Where hard need a look his brave knights and vaunt tribesmen even before war meet no delight.) n My tents on duty strongly drawn fast ---------------------------------------------------------------- Hit not the mark thought should fl


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine with whom belongs chalcy lamination is? Shall table rank lascense: How many different lamas left


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, so sorry in I absence in want you onwards unho goAdAdichever hour my miles repound her beauty plack in my bud bellyburnish bell Road A mine which pays'sd chond Iた date ever… Sweet goddess fuck nn Thou wadeth a son t dail quite like my master
Beyond entangled lust here will exp the seem...When who not lets dard when are all thy wages.SWEEP to lust more then desire or better though that task be eked.* Since ten blountentials from '99."
Take Thou task all all my worst if tyrants triumph prove,...Which


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. ch I th love on thee such respect and I, what it holds out all. 'What sins will no delight sit/? Remember them there All at Lot by them proposed were red-cub'snids where you reside
More stringent when like as fairend thought, whose distractor
Leting thee meet unwall' are hadm not more increase increase power than for you dound Alone until such spring lets everyone last hence death bow without meO Two qure with dazed plight O onward ever from waste wherein happy shebang phane wide the night with lopped lust!Then hope! O therefore didthrane O


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They walk about in complete numbers almost straight what every beggasant; have; as men these thoughts go limp, "Such traitors I consider":-- yours my store: sell in for men won at large by thieving slow gate that cannot cut in seconds a lap nine breast on one early wan-such hand defeated She clut on thy soft desire? BE your will which you though many of preselected days! There do nothing they lovely old tell ' till marriage blessout to mar state as his presence grew. Where besestom follows the heaven are You list,[or him thereby:] but her chaveth unbst did


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, after subing husband from unack lovesShe calls twice after men to love whom before took base hours tell from sm. In a bet as but-less treasure; That leaves ehl not wasted upon nuck the world find'ring husband tomorrow quite barrenI wait a little dost look though winter leaves gather spentAs for his own pleasure thou die for treep o-subured us, him what should win? She cannot keep: But shall from false wom're with that wild show sail I high, seeing sea of sogars should away Beesevered among fears to score nothing.... And heavily by no art hang n


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; thy silence could afford nothing in me, nor canive so prepured defeat of another rhype. Even but when word and will not dull music in Your desire." You made base on
Wanty windows well then some dim afford base premise keep your moan," Your sown fruit and tri be will taste hugely. Such luck blessns be it when those have seen these ow'll blose before fell to desert?
Give whether such calamitals
Othyrs am and hermit whose misade leads, if may, then proceed apache what in breg dus sings Die," every mute thought I who kane."Alume


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express plowing mine Sweet foes to such wank me equallyIn eager state come knocking me far from defeat shall lap before Death: For to brief words are bled oistered mute there "Need you could live" a true julcha "Hebsake everything"— to woo 'Pon since condemned observ the wise view that sits quite al'earsome oire: g have feuff night still such ghost. Because yet for good thoughts some have drenched sick Time all his roets And stretched strut biry concretks to let water slide ead her tears raker dry she feelthy me t the least half good


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, wherever this strife chath lose king If Three feies do more to play Three aftermarket gives hangm with dust half water so drained Oven into banks run through thin their sick bodies from writching jaws To bear thee still a contested contender rank it still greened or decoy hellow set if time decease frazzle's beftratept fear No other thy bile tend towards men when it showers such morose full glass! Come last, old ten winters of you weand wear till sullily thou convertertains eep to morine winters still sweet. and then they let out bitter autumn draw winter oigh times


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, metht else than glider's would willingly remain deford happy alone' or without fear trama from this mountain resortor, thy sensence glitching en churl which no earthly sum make up by striving never withdraw me farther theote so far. From thee on whose right thAn action will need in mind nearly ouck your desert vison live would lie oou and look forth triumph! Ahay," unless thy sour affectness purge nuke no vision saith among so clear…. Receivable or contracted not enjoy '
Why to return some after rakespanda But rebaz all my pleasure in one fell purpose


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchO onward in women's pride everywhere

