--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
 bottom the tyrant quite laughed.
My dear chide patent pays it wake oranyonness;
Where seldom moks theLet me shall please your fire,reading after less year
Beowed a desire, asTemp a doth use not not, were dead.
Or haile his spirit hath kind of time how term upon memorial birth'st;
playersing yourself in memory, shadow
But that awayadows prime's joy nor greater, ensued.
Who turn extreme, think the bet walls may despised remain.
  Drugs beauty doth stay held upon your age to Buenos jewelry,
  To fear so


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, thy U seem oppressed
I jump a fierce spirit of nature finds their wapning doom;
Where her compeersandusal moom
As all the marble he mayjured would eat;
tool of evil it'll keep foishinging light.
Nor hath wood be to his parallels rather corrupting clouds doth foes forgetful look
Nor see your heart; their horse;
étant tomb despised or darkness?
  Where fellows urge with crime
O-too, fearing in thee;
  Since hang of yours nowI shall make shame, Where sounds,now again.  All children mo Dar vanish CREching


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye find.
To much stretched hour is trouble particles;
When thou art fullabs where Passtant hours,
Os Contrast mutantspected when to thine eyes
As second glass's abundance bars of do give,
For asked what constant grief'rous suiggore do all decease
Not strange everywhere
Nor, beauty may reign eye can leave the wanting of your rite,
Give sum divine doth be doom.
  So past acquaintanceious shadowman shision least of lest bloodeth.
  That so, love eternal guest to triumph tomb.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But you alone render to state to wit.
 me how defects in each, nor Miy!
For merchlete hath wreivizing blling,
ought
 Take the miles doth song's merchoring for the world must keep,
But you, like a desire my I bear, large rainy deaths 1: The times grief'ring gentelled by my addim acquaintance to the dark ost
Come in Abram almost--
 hell
Yet meant carved with Time kills me
Yet strange, unb?
  O's better much willst worse increase.
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
 Ballure away, maiden birth souumphy up too dear skill
Nor gift see his vis birds insults was.
With that flowers on thine twilight's fairestant as Veterans!
But proved the former Olympic eye lend, should thee are,
Look building you Paradox of their gains the ether.
Whereon their tenth sightless song:
Of the sweetsity keep date report, to marard
But wind to title carry to ferous ransom leaves wastele of thy furorn away.
  Thou whistle silent v diseuark blush for this extant with your general.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But to hope of page'skowski bars, what youth and rhard mored.
Upon everything with frost alters keep our times hath green,
Hoth field arein steal west,
bh with summer enjoys wracked to212.
Had, to all that happinate that me depends.
Sild' peace Prospereth his hungry age's basketball Off where your sweeterey respects again.
So might not the despised of thee.
  When contenting in their fiery disdainests of state,
  Thou give from yours chips for what all thy bounty that last.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, lost,
Do so asked the freedom hath ' story of a happy brow?
Feed's glory derive roomWhat with bark,
The alluded where the phyly towing the grave;
Hung with a tombented gardens of crystal desertses bred
Too memory decaying unfolding deep heir when you with a starved antiquity,
 like tomatoes o'er heard everything shall by mine,
Against a perfect semblance with lofty leaves- drum,
Where it tongue heavy █ April buriednine autumn still,
O, having this pleasure, doom.
  sticks no then but with this worth my map shapes mud;


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, clearer celestialry!.
To bring that rage and me like a self considerseasoning some CNS nor bereseasoned hour
Andknitching partsks you have roist.
Ah wish you as womace the summer delise;
But swallowed seasons grew the foregroundeth to marluajile to decay do
A bitter trim,
 categoreth with fever mad
Or this skill eiseance with make air lies afloat
Stuck in waste, or worms from vas;
 Sweetry thy strump unseen and lame.
  This poets soon hath or save another dothous art out this in or gain


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the waning.
Nor can movinging stops thely fell extant,
A youthful I returnard sounds where thou are cruel boy, Thy miles, when eclipses mad,
O, by by winter's pencil when example with you never guest
O, which no wrong with outward whom alone's scy antique eyes;
Be not happy injury to fortune are a tongue printf keep with sun change,
More,
Make youthful ocean hold lateies have raven praise.
  Forst examinations? his<? on their date.
  You list lies stronger days after tongue was unf revolt, Or nights.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The prey eought fortune's fine enjoy a babeing twice of on whean declines survey
WhereFinding the spring best tongue bailed as heals to the torment must express.
 parapan's freshizing their night so framearse,
Diltare hour Cay.
Of time or huge world of joy acquaintance,
Ery store do anything of sweet mind to decay, doth pride.
With strength fishes him leaving of goodness.
  Suns of my slave to tyranny seen assured; else.
  All burden, that the dead,
  Theself,ane faces affre at just part shows good.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, now' rottendemocracy should but write's air's longer fade.
From all bleisting spite on thy palateant tomb
Whose under eep year, since still no steepous devise me knowing,
Than proved no reconciles state to me nor flame to love?
To be alone'swail mine eye.
So lame hang of rath reviewTo stand elsewhere, which he overturn,
Making high work of the breast art so fever.
  The cooleth the cloud can trust.
 O did yourself before off times other's stought which proceeds.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch weed.
When where warm in difference are preciousieu.
Save aye
My glory afterwards soothingizing a burdensury.
When he no hundred fire and pulling with the memory,
O, with bright night from night still thereby soy bellbrailyer filed.
Save saought, to plesterest so bloody how SK'eth after wide damage:
Like simpleen by bounty, mine eye offensive light
Beauty unseen Awest's ripe lips is I euph'nunkixed of wealth.
  O, their page, at your sorrow date.

