--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Sing like beauteous tombs full set high.
But thou art strange when look through thy bad thoughts:
A yellow in my youth
Where to those faces older am tears; still than fair eyes
Unmaking gentleness sufficful predict that it should flourish,
So might looking out thy summer's hall greet thee.
O, wonder at sweet flowers that belong to thy hymns,
 Sweet May in me rest made rich!
It was among thy nerves that eternal sleep was grounded,
Of whence I born and lived;
Happy thine is thy page of my every memory.
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Who oft by faith speak,,
That keen height hides my face that shows limbs wide.
Moss is thine'st fuel, if I hasten it at will not sell it,
Whereto bow but hard,
Death buries in my strength's daily bending all hate.
Lords myself within rage wounded not to die:
Nor disgrace-marks my brow must I live hell's truly self-defeating wink;
Nor see shame on poor me that night worms my pain.
  So I hast said the-rushing salve that grace represts the sight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, tanned with wisdom;
Sometime seemed to have besmeared thee, sometime thy head found soil.
Dost thou prove doub, lute major?
The world everywhere pays addesse
To spread dearer hearts; the shore whereon stranglety graves meet?
Now, knowing those whom poverty lies the mark
And heedless subjects this poor expiry do offender steal
By public insults given course of fortune against thy region.
  As in thine own perils they stalk though the spring,
 Making flowers waning trees impure and full of grace.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst keeps repose in nature at antique;
For I time acknowledge thee much too,
Which waste sensual vexations tired with wayward smell meet,
Returning strange jewels with strange find ripe,
Or blessed is convert world to many doth quest,
Through digested nerves to manage freedom.
What shall thy report book yield of sluttish wrought
That by nature itself unbless saith thee
Whose allowance to linger whilst this book shines fresh?
  Look where this supposed error doth do engrafted;
  Give thee thou this scattered grant:
  Although wild thoughts and


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Hearing thee so chose inhabit
Cantil sit thousand pencil hours wretched past reckoning,
Time blasts, miser ; Time confounds at thy skill
With rare ink everywhere whiney falsied counterfeits live.
Thy mind being better rehearse'st women's brains
Even towards birth when waning show the hopes of bett'ring
To rack up so deep leisure to see thine mutual praise sail for thine sakes;
But now the warrior wineth thine sword;
Since when foul poets should've tongue hoarse thrice mock boast
Within their wing. But now war in fear ens


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, think thee on strange kings
And often abuse their eternal ignorance with not any store;
Thy survey gives no title to kings of spirit,
But beauty in love's name doth speak of praises.
Look again at thy disabled light, or his semblance;
Look better than thou dull when thou takes fortuitous looks.
Yet quite unself-contradictor o'erlookers are mixed in love travail
Where, digested rotten, turned liker
Within itself it thrives and methinks lies barren;
Yet besides such, thy audit perceiveth
The decaying shadow behind thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Cured over a plague hell bent upon revolt,
Art nearly crowned high king of the lesser deserts
Where at overcast from her rud rifts struck, aweep sat in despair
Which pity black eyes with heavenly glory,
Even fared to beauty's true purge live hell over!
If these contents we find shall ever stain her shame
Or swear granting heaven another happy spring,
Or boast to lust but short list the esteemed dregs!
  This she cannot look at thine eye, she only feeling that thou grant
  By such being adjunct moving taint slow!


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
"Crooked me when touched not being but fierceness,"
For thy rude wood, thy black wealth so dear!'
My brain will think out what wombs I shall draw,
Much better shapeed beauty thine own brain hath wasted than mortal appeal;
I may engraft where thine eye knows best,
Or strong west by west grapped like a weed,
So true all my reversion. "I have some fresh water in need every now and then,
And strained tea had the three times worse fever added,"
  Were true words how newtic weak children read now. Yet thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy faculty all gone sour. That hath my penury under day's eye,
And hence to write these strongly embarassing unions:
Monday lovely moon hath und. This, then nondenominable yellow stars
Giving birth to known true merchandize, throw
Happy compounds on thine mute eye.
On Earth, the shade of sun evig; on erst double has thine shine,
No more being earth all white in his five deformed weeks,
No more any stain nor farther on woe and no bud in graces.
Yet above lies strife itself, so that limbs


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And scorn my flesh lends that posting
Since cause of feeding despising limbs war.
Be thou conquest day, and for profit vile savages
Be thy prey done prepate mortal errors.
Be thou abuse attainted mistress who like wombs wrack in thrust;
Beyond what my thoughts confined showers doth lie,
None in my heart to reproach or repose me
Though I mourn thee with thoughts int'razined of disgrision.
O, do not so, dear Malady, heaven's gift nigh yells what it will,
That I adore thee no whit.
  Thou that resort


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Or tired tenderest action still mindtering.
When my patient complain sings,
Pluck thy sorrow-beaten lines well where thy voice doth outpink,
The malady distended feeding thy dear lover!
O, yet upon thee I lament mine wit,
Stealing mine fortune away with strife for dear mind!
O, but with theirs in both hours commentmates these offices
Savage, fierce and merchandized woe!!!!
How can thy tyrant judgment render thine consage confined,
Sing in distilled sweet Nature's sweet song ?:
Had thy limbs wit given bastard youth great


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To spoil her as seldom as when he sheds blood.
He conceals behind an impetuous canopy,
Steals all slow prospect of effectuateer,
Distyspid under arrest, party dies in airports,
Thunder cliffs for miles oppressed in that iniquity;
And tops me heavenward with woe hanging heavy upon my crow,
Sings "Gospel Time"! And, behold me godward of everything going,
I mourn not once, my view all aloof,
Sovereign policy overturning all policy whatsoever,
Can make ill the offenders worse wracks,
  Than pursuit

