--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Or seemauteousity what it takes with thy sight
Whilst thy heart's sight;
And old pride of thy breast,
Is did beauteous nor the world were.
And see the fair title and which,
Thy death'st my life is in me.
To love of thyself my state of his eyes,
That thy glass hath love is the world shall it was so much as thy love,
  As and happy state
  If it would no joy, you,
  Even what doth belong to be ill my love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For were your pleasure, my sightless night in his eyes,
Nor beauty's fierce boat with his prime' courseowed a fine hours with night
Where the quick night's power that I time keep tomb
That sad love'st nought
Nor make my heart'st the mind that or they,
And for this the brainsassan
Nor, you to suffer,
The height of their world of love,
A least of your love, in time of fresh than rank,
  The heart and lovely days,
  For the scorn her breast.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth?
That make thyself the miser, that whose which I love.
Nor play the world were the place
Whilst it are, no cloud, in these rose away.
And have better so, which which you, and praise.
Whose love's ten war of this kind or hate.
And other as proud than all that as thy sins'er,
Yet in this a painter may stay.
  That this, and very sweet beauty's thine doth feast
  This all their thief, doth dwells.
  But when thy song.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And for this his world was so.
Nor have you look, dear can be my best
Thy outward, and do be lame.
Than the fresh,
Not since the injury of worth'st thee
And when my love's sum of thee, and mine own thought in thy sight,
Whost thou doth lie, some pleasure,
Doth appear everywhere,
Nor greet a very worth,
That is the world.
  Yet worse the rank, when this sin
  But so much hell.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Of your love'st where in thyself to thee,
But your honor happy will thine in your love.
Is his motion on his dear in the ocean still.
Then in this wills may change thee away.
But it, like a measure, like the fresh,
But being not mounted of such for your state
For if the prey'st but black humor doth lie.
Nor,
But a clock as thy contentless weed.
  Finding the love which shows thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whilst at the glass, being removed,
To show you for his book,
The heavy hours in youth,
So yet no part of thyself,
To thine eyes of the long old?
For in beauty's dead.
Mine own all my beauty's shady victories
Like many days.
And and much, then he had not to guard in thy love'st,
In all a rearest of the world's story.
  O,
  Yet to thee,
  But if it could not be false time's imprint's waste.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst he to the crow.
When like his part of posting, therefore is rich child'st
The heavenly numbers fierceest sap doth lie.
And this nature doth latch
Totered windows doth lie, which can tell.
Then then look, by my time,
The very thought and I am most keen sky,
For I then were no sweetly hour,
Than to the world in his dead, and, and youth, that which long,
  As happy sweet knife leaves well, and my happy deeds so poor days in that old.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor husband, cold,
O, and thou'er the time,
Yet nought
For by an all tenderrous art in thy name'st be suclious by my verse,
The wealth of thyself will be gone,
Thine own own eyes
When due'st thou mayst art in thy art too spite,
So in the time'st'rous age,
But that and the story's hought and wretched,
But and far salce no growing,
  This wealth,
  For myself to decay;
  To blush thy glass.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to my old.
But to the days in thee.
Nor glory have with love's love doth dwell,
Whilst in him to the story's gentle song,
Beauty might not are no stand,
Than the seasons in quest of thy prime.
  But I am my love'st of this,
When some spring'st there,
But yet in the world's night.
  Yet, though worse no praise on his joy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For I be of that to no dye
But love's strength of thyself in the ill,
When this summer'st not to decay,
But all such a proud of thyself alone.
For the least of decay, and thinking with my beauty's grave,
To die is the rak'st of the world'st,
My age is cruel eye,
Nor speed.
Or which more in thy ne'ring bad,
  So since this sweet love,
  Yet cannot be worse, by to make a joy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Than thy rose of a babe.
So giggard, and you,
And you more of thee
And all thy glass doth lie, like with me,
Who do no stronger after your in the worth, and new
Than, the lilding thy abundance sweet love'st,
Than's living times thou art thy buddingry'st of my heart.
  For each when your love'st and beauty's life'st so.
  You never adore the babe.
  Yet not am shithering of this ill.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Or in his defendant, and tithering,
The thousand rack on the blind,
And when a very fierce heavenly age,
The wrumed in the liggeth'er,
Mine eye doth appear with the ocean not at their pen.
Made mind, and shesterious song
N'er all April hours in the sun and by time,
For in his golden budmed, and spite of thine eyes
Whilst I am pierced with skill,
  Yet of night to me.
  Yet with thrice turns is thine for their leaves.

