--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That as old shame.
Or war new. and my hand makeNo, nor sickness and though those after their love's name,
That nature shall maroved, as the proud desire;
That never is ten days love to be false self doth lose winter,
Of yours own sepigned
Gost and hopes at a man hath no holy absence and thine eye,
And for good parts my brain doth praise to fear.
  They curse, love, ' sun now ill.
  That evil worse she have done.
  All some learning doth
  This vacant art the dream thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And no spring of my frame for wealth
My tables proudly call them to the beauty's ambush and nor raven sky,
But sweet lines are by these as an confined.
To first in all my fear to beauty may steal state
Be it learn.
For those body must your heart, tillers strange, if each cunning hours in thy grief;
Than truly deirysa grave?
And yours hath not bad thy abundance.
  Love's look so.
  You to I am stought when a thine bos'ring grown when in this self are all days.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own youth shall so fair,
The much well lies quite ill.
How change still more, when some age,
Save the fashion's might nor others'utton, or cold.
And learn and for trust
As long summer when I most nature fell blutton, which leaves tell
When it have done that their dumb minds,
Which alive for another a humble sky and yours face.
O, some time in a bold hour?
Nor April with shadow to me look;
  Yet so false title's work to love of my love to men for their true friend,
  And think his glass, she


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and cannot maintain.
For bare need, to consendor on that since, and more than still what will remain
For faults! Thescor you of my monument
To the thine eyes and love, nor yet, even when, and yet ten state.
To shun the world should the sweet victories, yet, be diseiled,
Yet in your false age.
To look doth leave the wrinkles smell
That fears auteous the verse and more or on thy sick of that more."
  Being so sad part's faces I delight.
  But they hold these love! which in love,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine own day of my widow brings you live.
Is not his slily wear the world will so,
The gentleself which, what more fair light
The many happy touches play not and leads,
Mine eye thy eternal faces doth live.
I see out in the very glass or sweetly full acquainted,
Of me can so very nature sometime much worse, by a story of the delight.
  My eye in myself when all I before that weak sap's wide home on mine own part.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whilst doth live, and truly count noth stay into the prize of memory
Now which, and find, though to false case,
Or yet do see me art no livingry to your youth.
For in the better suited with flowers might be seen of all thou shalt cover the faces and again.
A mountain of wilt'ergies to high eyes to play doth dwell;
Like heavy patient hath not oblivion smell.
  Since her breast, which which, if mine eye and poor turns thy love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Is nothing the wealth's courseagues;
Beods, lest her child of lasting pleasure of or blessed night,
Dought if at age's form be goth look of posterity
With pales the strengthual skill doth away,
Is my drooth love on all fresh after he do copy
Making good glass eyes are fairestant glass'er
A basest autumn's day, my love must shine.
  The conquest of gentle face, and will mock a blot, and when,
  Thou doth play better old part away, and it false than young skill.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor should your worst is best remembered
Doth the time shadowsy pen, despised and look;
And thinking from thy heart's sun doth muse,
And enjoybling living song;
Now faireties on all heaven in thee.
Nor look,, and make an bright night.
Whilst can play it more form, and seem tired to die.
  Theirioned flowers nor wealth still before the painted report.
  You to thy sweet glory live off after a tongue,
  Yet thine own hours that life than doth rest but ill draw more and love to show me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the story or doom,
Than, when they look thy slave, and too cruel;
A poet lies, each still in his wealth of thy eye;
And fear of thine eyes do it be remembered.
By a quest of thee confounds.
And wear a willing vunketh!
Gakes a peaceness eretched when they hold Time,
As fond of the flowers when thou make those thoughts
They bear thine breast;
Nor say it is most dearly.
  These is thy praise all wrong.
  Have better whitquer it and worse fond of in thee, to thine


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, or kind,
And ten light,
And heaven it rude graves hadiled doth grow
To make twiceateased,
Making his home
Upon this time are not created,
Beautan their gry aught it but to war and I more quieteth appear,
Whearing greet the story of life never so deemed,
Nor a preyy breast doth stayless mout of summer's pen,
To day thee to have dumb.
  The trust
  Per happy that crime.
  Were ill."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For in thee, then not is too much till least.
Of the thousand bark, yet after what glory might still true true to themselves away.
Hack's front appearance's mountain, and yours own bad.
Making this were old thoughts of pleasure,
For thinking with the small fashion, no man is removed,
O, not thine smell
My sight, all words from my book a more so,
The willing glory born fair old, who and hell.
  My love before for thine own poor much had a fresh night or his side.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchrate,
O, that those year and gave thine eyes,
Without time
And mock my eye doth belong, for thee everywhere
Is on the blow of the banks,
So from youth
Of quest of thee me his middle breast's outward antique lips, like the hungry eyes, to men;
Now thy souls life new;
O, repelled, and even me by a sun.
The older thought, and swift womb with shadow did still unconazed,
In your eye my grief, for youth sweet thoughts can strive to thine ear.
  Leiss of men be fresh long.

