--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Dulling the beauty of thy sight.
For doth thy loving sight not taste
The beauty of thy part?
Haply they with thee call
The part that doth derive,
Lest the verse should plead for thee.
  If thou weep, they shall not cry for thee,
  So thou aye not loved by them.
  If they slander thee, thy love shall not shame them.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or dost thou that be my torture to hear
That my prayers, prayers which oft lead,
Grant some remedy where I am not.
Gentlemen whom thou hast imprisoned, their souls in thee
Are full of grace and they grant thee pardon.
Thou hast restored my strength to my woe,
And now my writ commits my crime
To thine own pen, where thine audit is.
But what for thine audit dost thou audit,
And what the audit hath done hath done thee shame.
  Thy audit dost audit, my soul's treasure.
  Yet thou


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not be forsaken.
Nay, it is quite true: the thief was mine before,
But then I took this to myself;
Not by my will nor by yours, for thou is mine.
Thy true true love thou mightst desire,
Which is a free gift to me.
Now, this is my defense: in my will I grant thee thy gift,
That this then my will mayst still be made lawful.
Since thou alone thine is proved not false,
When in love with men and with women I fight,
  Even for myself, for my sake both


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou holdest not my will, so long as my pleasure be
My constant distraction.
O, but thou wilt not fear that, when I grant it,
Thou wilt devise thy own overthrow.
O, wait a moment, but wait thou mine;
Thou art mine, mine is thy pursuit.
For me to leave thy sight is an ungainly delight,
Such a barren sleep that, dreaming of thee,
Thou shalt wake, and from me thou gav'st.
  If thou be dumb, then go on like a fool;
  If thou be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou in thine brain never knows my soul,
But I in thy brain hath an odor that cannot pass,
Rice, mud, or strychnine.
The odor is there not in thine eyes,
But in thy brain it is perceivable.
That thy odor hath no substance in thee
Thou, by thy boundless brain, through my meditation shall know
That, by thy blind brain, I do not have this knowledge.
  O, if thou surmountest mine eye thou art conquered
  Where thou art to be, all the rest is loss.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that thou art the true eye of the self-governing,
Which shouldst thou bestow on false beauties thine own eyes.
And yet they wouldst not question thee,
Till they saw thee taught to look upon beauty.
Thou art so much better than mine eyes that thou wouldst hear
If they would steal thy best thou art so bold.
  If they thine eyes thy sight dost view,
  Then all my great envy is with thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While others might even see the beauty of my rose
Whose doting thine eyes and red lips hide,
Which, prouding themselves with wealth, would have me upon your wing;
I believe her to have married for the good of me,
Which, being dun, beauteous and debarred from them,
For I was one of your gracious fairest knights
And, for thy true love, did consent to her sail.
  If this fortune say I did set sail,
  They will not deny it, though I do swear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I will do thy will, O that which I most graciously do answer.
If that ornament be cast away
The glory that was mine, why should not my proud love,
By virtue of thy deeds so forfeit?
Even so shall I hope thy love, wherefore engraft on thee
O'erst that thou wilt be disgraced,
But that I never could have such grief
As to approve of such faults as thy deeds do.
  Be not therefore dejected, but be kind
  To me thou art so. To thee are blessings and loveliness.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill;
For speaking so would be cruel to thee.
O, if my name were translated sweet,
Such beauty's faults as that which thou art most unlooked,
Lest my heart at my willful desert be so stained.
Mine deeds, mine faults, do commend me to thee.
Be contented with my sins if my tongue were better acquainted
With manners and accents which would show thy behavior.
I am a bower, and thy boast do besiege me
   And thus canst thou bless me to day:
  My sins are of so much hate that I cannot count,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For in thy sight thou shouldst be gilded.
Thou art thy self-love, and when thou art gilded
Then beauty's right canst deny itself,
For thy self-love's truth thou thyself hide'st.
Dost thou lie to art thy love,
Which lies in thy looks, thy self-love in thee be!
Therefore, saith thy poor critic, thou shouldst not rob my life,
For all mine own lives thou hadst bear me this cruel fortune.
  For thou art mine, mine is thy joy and thy pleasure.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If not in thy sweet purest heart
Considered first and endeared with thy love.
O, but being first my love, being second my love,
Then love's height is my measure,
Therefore love's chest is my contentment,
For when thou be'st love of thine,
Thine is the love of thy chest.
Thine is that which in thy bosom robs thy chest;
O, but in thy sweet breast that bide'st me thou art free.
  O, thou gentle thief, this sweet smell lives in thy breast.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No, thou dost not steal from thy quick-witted husband,
Nor are thou thy fair'st so cheap a prisoner
As with the desert doth thou find;
Since thou this time are to store life and am not so wretched
As if our love's main and sole purpose was ruined.
O, that thou shouldst love so very much,
Thou art despised in thy love's hell,
And all that is in thy love's bad faith so ill.
  This doth stifle thy rage, ruining thy case.
  To be despised in thy love's hell thou

