--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost beguile me this mortal be
And steal thy dear love's sweet hours from thy sight.
For if thou steal this, my heart's right,
My sweet love's right, thy right, thy sweet love's right,
And, ah, steal thine hours from thy sight.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Save that thy picture doth in my heart's picture.
  This wish I have, then ten times happier,
  The more I do love thee: thy picture shall never live,
  The hardest knife ill used doth bear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it fears to wet my woe to dry?
No, it is the worst
For I impair not beauty's strength,
But strength's low rank, so bad
That no form delivers on a swart complexioned morrow
Whilst on my frailer knife I throw
Thy rank thoughts my sick muse brings forth;
It suffers not, O'er-snowed, nor it with me.
So flatter I the riper days,
And look I death my woe;
  For thy sake even for thy sake lay on me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed;
For if thou stick'st me this rich in hope,
Whilst like a willing patient
And like a willing patient
That no form delivers to thee.
Thus far my bed is but a dream,
My limbsless counterpart, my limbsless mind.
For if at some other pass,
My limbs with limbs do vow,
That no form delivers to thee.
  For thee watch for thy limbs when thou feel'st it,
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than unswept stone fortify me
Where wasteful war shall not seem,
To meury, blunt thou my straying youth,
Whilst that churl Death my spythe and my hand against
The barren tender of thy love's love's love.
O, let me be obsequious in thy will;
O, that thy will be good, though my poor beast. If I be cast away,
Thy will be thy gentle love, and will be my woe;
But since she pricked thee out for me she pricked me out for thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy defect is that in thee that dost hold,
Whilst this is not enough that through the wrinkle of thy life,
For it dost beguile me that thou stick'st
Whilst I, thy sweet love, mine is not so keen,
As to prevent thy scythe and thee
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Thy defect is that thy right,
And therefore is thy right, me, too fair
To double that right, not to be assailed;
  Unless thou be cast away,
  The worst was this: thy love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for that sin they look upon it
Is rich and powerful, so as a mansion,
And in their lusty compounds methinks their eyes are saucy;
Yet, beauteous and lusty lovers' eyes are
These poor vassal bound to thine eyes.
Ah, yet in thyself dost beguile
Thyself dost beguile me that thou be good.
My love, thyself dost beguile me,
To be obsequious and sorry in me.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy,
  Where


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I, too much dyed,
Might not on thy beauty indirectly strangle,
Divert strong minds to the blind were in my seeing;
Mine eyes, my blind presagers, are now my sight
My visionless viewless the world with my alchemy,
But in the distraction of my breast,
Mine eyes are drawn but by the blind;
Mine eyes are drawn but by the blind, which are bright on her sightless night.
  And so, till they see, hear, find no reason why my breast should keep so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That what I call good or evil luck,
Like to the lark at break of day arising;
For then thou fill'st my hungry eyes even there,
Though I lose thee, and then mayst call upon thee.
Then mayst thou fill my hungry eyes even there,
Whilst I, perhaps, at the least, do allow
That hungry ocean be took
From the deep vermilion in the shore where two contracted new
At a wrinkle graven there.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  The humble of my woe, and mine eye


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Thy merit hath too grossly abused.
Thy argument is not enough that of thee
To weigh how hard is love, blunt thou my pen'st.
For if it be obsequious for love, then thou dost pay it thee.
That thy gentle grace may be assailed,
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, rude,
To know thy worth when I am done.
  Pity me, then, dear, and then, dear, and then, dear, and then, dear,
  But then, if ever, be hell,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
What like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Hath put a face on thee.
To 'tis true, that is true
But that is for thyself at all worth,
Whilst it hath no part, or ten times more,
Whilst it hath no part,
Yet 'tis the tenth burden of a gilded tomb,
And 'tis an all-too-precious privilege;
When my glass shows me myself myself,
And I will vow never be absent from thee.
  I will be true despite thy wilt,
  Even though thou wilt be false.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself, thyself at a frown on me,
And in myself thou art blamed if thou not good.
Thyself thyself thyself is an idol show,
A self for worth the love of thine own self.
For me thou dost plead that thyself dost bear
The perfect ceremony of love's woe,
And I straight uprear
Thyself thy advocate, thy advocate, thy right.
  If thyself dost love my state,
  The humble, my state, or thy pleasure.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey on thee,
To linger out a purposed overthrow
But hang more praise upon thy woe, and less praise.
Sometime too hot the eye of the heaven,
For 'tis so hot is her prime;
So is she so keen on her quest,
Which to be a confined stay
Upon the distraction of my weary minutes,
Whilst, rank of goodness, I do vow:
She keeps my love, and she keeps it.
  But then begins a journey on thee, and her sorrow
  For thee no quiet find, let her depart.

