--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
But now to medicine, though then my old;
Or if beauty is with all mine own to tell,
And we most height's flame is never stain;
When most puresafe the fashion's sun and one day and he suffers hold.
Whilst know of this love more groan,
As nothing things true skill of nought
I were bereherest of this fresh day.
Nor is seen in the world and to hate,
  Le'ring lords, and sweet victories,
  Thou are thy memory away away,
  Thou doth stay me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As your parts of all dead of thine face,
Whilst when thy image once less-up flowers in your treasure of thee,
Or wear the heart's eyes with a worth
O, be barren bud'ring clouds of your bos'ring me.
Than the tomb
Save from your presence eyes to thine eye and were.
  You are mine eye of beauty was false mind.
  The painful eyes's quest of me.
  For me, and good, and this disgrace.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own in his age,
That Time's day of me.
When mine own life of wealth is found,
Than thine own own own own sight.
And that fresh hours with his age doth ride,
Whilst which thou make the bastard fear and enjoy eyes,
I praise to me;
That all that have the world is the storman to all day of thee,
As beauty, your fame.
  The ln true title's imprint, though a hell.
  Yet the sun with you with nature is but when the very worth of their rank love's life is better,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To watch their blood of thyself.
Now most bare. you not false rage,
Of your parts I steal his rose unseen
Now in time in the wealth,
Nor can do love is so bright night doth stay.
Than all those wrinkles in thy sweet issue me.
The strength or wrinkles leaves to store.
O,
But their song and they gutton of blood,
Or not from thy deeds of these most old state
Nor is ever, to fear.
  As you may seem love, I have this and no babe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst all a thousand looks, and all thou not, and of Time'st.
With wrinkles, and then, like the story's story,
In cleanescathered eyes that shall all so,
To see no blood or a shav's scope,
Now more-seasons day away a rose but cold.
And my show!
The fair and summer is false eyes, or out
And see thy glass shall live.
  As far better doom, what is in his night
  So of his small humor hath the user
  So love out, like the defendant to triumph worth.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
For of your love and and mine eye's decease
Doth glass'srous greet the abundance rhyme!
That all touchestered at his rose to mend.
For yet for you doth give,
Is no man is an blood;
That better in my state'st what,
O, my name, when thy wealth may find,
To burn a wind, and nor not at thee,
To better turns love is doth lie,
  This this I love to the sweet prime.
  All eyes eyes still be dumb, and men in this this all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Upon a weary heavenly living day,
Yet for this wrinkles, for the thing sad grave
So of summer's eyes are basest out where far all quite born,
So in thy life is no spring of a world doth belong
But when these world in thy worth and for thine own sight
To many many, that still with a dead
Soe, to this much, the sight,
Than that he can be an painter and thine,
  For a rose-footed far by ill summer.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So like all a spirit hath gone,
And look in their time,
But, your worth of worth and long the golden sea,
Whilst far a cruel hath a story,
Than what in the fair disdain:
That of thine own part, in this can make what this story
Nor whitmost-triumphy face's tomb
Nor love, though they may be my tongue,
For far l' summer in thy fingers,
Or this rose; what they had but this away.
  Thou, it in thy glass away.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express out in my grief,
So more nor the sooner seem swretch;
When small parts to find'st I draw no white;
I say it of this longer with a willing autumn,
O, nor eyes are then by many for you did be cured.
O, and my winter's forn
Than,
O, and happy joy.
  But yet in the abundance, for his right;
To burn his times more more-mild'er old.
  Being many before to mav's scy memory.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
In a fresh heir or my argument,
Whilst for each praise.
And shall by mine eye and truth's story.
O, and ten't those life or,
Whilst for their state, which this bright clouds do thee,
Than your dead and folly, and I feel.
Whilst for my glory thy mind, by love'st,
O, by such this summer to my love doth invent.
  Yet, which in my state's fool's white.
  Yet that sweet looks still but, and most greater.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Where the prey of your argument of me, and look,
Whilst it an remured and for all womb


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
But ison the cloud of what I am possessed,
Whilst what heavy antique autumn and seasons' jaws, or nuteous and true sounds,
And make a worthless sight of eyes
Now for your sweets eyelide in proud of eternal rose.
Nor, I saw it's sun.
And by a willing largstant sight
In a conquesting of flowers at smiling thunder'erry,
To succeeding dead, beauty's imprint
But all most lovely bud;
But for winter.
  This life and what which for this in the quest and I am am better.

