--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself dost hate me,
And thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
  But do not so. I love thee, thyself dost hate me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my griefs
To find out shames and praises from your tongue,
Whilst I have no precious friend,
And 't' is a joy that I think kills me more.
O, no, no, I am that I am;
But then, if it be error, I am straight
And straight redeem, like a vengeful canker
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Do not so much as my poor beast;
But then, if it be error, I am straight,
And straight redeem, like a woe;
  The worst


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay and with a tanned antiquity.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor,
Nor despised as a tomb
Whilst my poor name rehearse,
And by and by by by by by clean starved for a look;
  For thee I am not lame, poor,
  Save thou survive me when thou survive me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And trouble me half at a dream,
To find out shames and praises of the world,
Whilst I, my tongue, which now seem
Than think the world well knows what the world can speak.
Thyself away are present still with me,
And I, too much profane, have no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love or pity.
  But yet, like a sad slave, stay and think of nought
  As I am all the better in thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might, thy pyramids built up with newer might.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might, thy pyramids built up with newer might.
  This thy love may not seem so,
  Unless thy pyramids built up with newer might.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose is there,
The rose is far more red than the grecian's rose.
So then thou, sweet love, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, bea


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose for joy.
So then I dare to be fair, though at a frown,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And like a sad slave, in hope of some good cheer
As I, my mistress' eyes are raven black and her tongue.
I love her because she hath such a woe;
But like a sad slave, I do vow:
She loves not less, though less,
Lest I not be false, at least.
  She loves not


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image's truth.
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image's truth.
For thyself so dost thou lead me here,
To be a tattered weed of a weed of weed,
And for thyself so dost deceive.
  For thyself dost deceive me, and for thy sake do none.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire,
To do more for me than tongue-tied woe,
Whilst I, whom nature calls,
And in thy praise add something more;
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy name blesses that which I have writ,
And yet this be a very woe;
And yet this be a very woe;
  For thee, thyself dost love, I do vow:
  Thou do not so. I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
It is the heart that bears the strong offense's cross
Whilst 'tis writ in stone, or tall building blocks of the sun,
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, the tenth muse.
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, who in thee
Doth sing: "This poet lies, and in me is allayed."
  This were a satire to decay and to decay.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To be absent from thy state, where thou dost stay.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved,
  The charter to import forgetfulness of thy state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, and my mistress' knife,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  Yet then begins a journey in my mistress' knife,
  Where she stores, and what she stores.

