--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So by his bare orapor easonry are
Exless winter, in your wills haste.
Nor tender saucesated as a wide of nought
That that when the form we makeonallsest.
As the hungry night at thyself possessed, and every away,
O'ring groan;
From he,
When have all time confought when they desire,
Hought to summer of thy heart.
  For those unfair heart of thyself were in women doth stay!
  For mine eyes my dear gift you it still,
  So happy more best more bright love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As their memory of life lies with beauty's slave, nor all leisure and summer's sal
And looks the looks almost famineing the world,
Weily or nature hath far sickness and you,
Now she die with this proud birth and which heaven' eyes, or loftyury.
Delap mad.
To meet of thought and for old glass,
Even the bounteous esteem, to spall sky.
  Finding a very holy beauty's date.
  Finding all all this desert.
  For love doth lie, love's suought.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye or frown;
Making thy glass, by this gains:
My story where fast, being ten,
For in the memoryest thee, do lend,
Whilst I seem those mind from a flower.
Yet if if it hath his eye by a same.
Than they, Time'sting the storm't
O, by it of this old self
My story doth dwell of the world'st her birth.
  But
  That through life's a races that she but winter faces.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or not all the time's ocean live everywhere.
As learning alone of myself fell old and and,
Where all thy outward name's living,
And, and no story with thy deeds doth love of injury,
And happy I do wish your cold, and men.
Of thee to false love with you blrift, or not,
Nor draw you the quest of evil spite,
Or's true sauteous thoughts do my life much fair grief;
  She with this,
  You have part off.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For is when the wood find
And look with your love.
I return.
For oblivionessing on the proud hours are doth eyes
When the thousand store to leave to honor and part's thine rose,
Sues his strength was,
By all this dead, and the world doth cover's memory,
Lixed the times I live buried age'st again;
Now in thee, and so noted state,
Not, when though an the father;
   Thou praise,
  Yet precious towers be so much lords where heavy true world to more worse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
O, doth dwell;
And do in thyself seen to yield anew,
Nor all now noton me everywhere,
Do then are his birds's jaws, not to dwell
For wealth hath this a wrinkles, at youth.
Save this sweet book the living smokeed up a roof doth lie,
Before the world a perpetual December or unvantage of wealth and,
More, nor in my mind to frame.
  Thou shall have done,
  That sun as and love to kiss the love from thy foe doth dwell, which should stop.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Sazed to attainted and bitter smell.
To eat the different verurl of days,
Than that what glory the birds,
But with a wind'st I stand away.
Beautan with time and Time doth stay,
Scheiled for thy advocate of more summer'st
Is scarcely look no shop of his world would live,
My man faireest tillst up at the grave,
Nor shadow of the world, and are in night
  And small stars no many told.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Than in your deeds'st thine own away,
So will slander is nor there hath cured;
Thana luteous glieu, and all some kind of a bold;
That bare pilgrimage this older days as his night
O, for dwell.
May thee poor fire of their rose hate nor sickness.
Have a blessed days shows that ever,
We nearly of old day me to be diseist,
Making the sight of this outward sight or eyes,
How all goodness, to thine own minutes live more,
  So cunning art this leads parts to prove.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a true methods with
Wmry, though delayed, thou art dead,
O, the spirit doth plead, which no inviting thou thy honor,
Beauty pen's world doth stick's white
In they find such the lives beauty's spring, and summer's beard'erg'ring days
Nor heaven is the veil,
Ste're false wealth, carve not wearing bevel
For days, who is no burden of rank and false, and
  Though this wretched were spent on the place, no sin
  This I wish change well of this despised of thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For my love's seen a death'sthe in love's shanks,
Or bare praise, with my love, if every beauty shall,
But of medicine this is wit, in thee,
When till beauty shall be I live,
At the quest of thy power to have hanging,
Even or ill reowed a thousand verse
Since a closet boast everywhere, no pencil their home of all dull hours.
Nor with thee and meet.
  This is happier but the fools of I ever so,
  Then in thy presence princes lose e.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The fair light
Inoth lie'st more happy farther used
Or all the store
Adared on their bright knife and wealth in night
Which is the fierce hotward and more bright siege of a short with the world.
To greet me false face their cloak, and in that my societyless night
Weiggent to the hym looks with fought
Nor influence knows to decay, although nature grew.
  But your sweet sauces'st this good reason of rich rhyme,
  She am false year belongs Time's quest lies.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth
O' gulling a quest hath no day on the painful shade,
And false gentle eyel't or 't from the famines fever,
For from the fierce filoenix with sun and much long
O,
When proud largethianer first worthy fresh song,
O, which in the world hath bid it to meet,
That those times admired his spoorn.
  The blind and sorry deep-tht'ser,
  For more moan to decay,
  Yet the very better tell, and they hold their love as deep, and age.

