--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence is the most most heinous crime.
Yet, lest I should in this blame thee,
My dear love is the more cruel to thee.
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence is the most heinous crime.
Yet, lest I should in this blame thee,
My dear love is the more cruel to thee.
  Therefore, fearing thy love, I forbid thy false self.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or else to my grief to stay my friend alone
When I have my friend's heart;
Or else, if I have no friend, my friend's heart
To suffer for my friend's crime.
So I do like to be with you, though in this war
Or at war with you, though in this war
I have no friend nor my friend's heart.
  But if, being conquered, I be defeated,
  I will be defeated for ever.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not steal.
But what a false god would in thee steal thy dear love's
If thou couldst thine own sweet love in me ransom
From thyself to thyself, and hence thine own worthiness!
For to thee my sweet love's ransom lies,
And thou alone alone in my worthiness's theft!
Thine own worthiness is this, this alone in my worthiness:
My love's treasure is thy love's treasure,
And all thy worth is mine.
  Thy worth is this, this alone in my worthiness:
  Thy worth is this, this


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To audit every aspect of thy beauty,
And to audit every part of thy beauty's worth.
Thou art the fairest of all, the most fine,
The most true of all, the most lovely,
And most dear in all things in all things.
I am the darling of all, the most true of all.
I love thee, and thy worth is thy most dear love.
Thou art the most true of all, and I will hold thee to myself.
  But that shall not be enough, thou art the fairest of all.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself beauteous, thyself idolatry,
That hath this great privilege of fame in thee,
Roses thyself the head of wealth,
And all the world's best hopes on thee.
If thou, thyself all impure, be my true love,
Then thou art my beloved and be my murd'rous slave.
But to be hated for this I would have none,
Because thou art mine and I myself am theirs.
  Thou shalt, like my mother, hate men's eyes and have none of them.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art blind, that thou mayst behold the world's eye
Whose sight the world's eye that dost see thou see,
That thy sight thou beholdest in their sightless eyes.
For thou art so blind that the world's eye hath no knowledge
And that they see but what they see,
That thou, their sightless eyes, is the sole light
That the world's eye hath ever seen.
  For thou art so blind that the world's eye hath no knowledge
   And that they see but what they see,
  That thou, their sightless eyes, is


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or perhaps of wealth and beauty's beauty's truth.
She hath, in my thoughts, been but a child of fortune,
And all the proudest trophies of the days
That date the time when she lived.
Yet that is not my love's invention
But is in the conquest of my mind,
That now my love's long since passed away,
And to this I answer:
"Nay, thou art her sweetest child,
And now, in the conquest of my mind,
I'll set my love aloof,
And all my proudest trophies to be."


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not thy prisoner, my dear love;
Thou art in my thoughts and in thy will.
Thou art the pen that hath writ this blessed thing
Which to thee penance is to be found.
Yet should not this be thought corrupt,
That thy love, even so despised, should ever be so despised.
Thou art my pen, my dear love,
And all the rest of thy offense.
For I have seen thee writ such a bad story
As I have seen thee used by the world,
And I have seen thee writ so bad that I have no thought
Nor thought


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The deepest fears of my soul.
O, then, be gentle, for my love is the most
Savage, the most harmful of all,
With my most cruel foes, whose cruel spite
Deserves not defense but thine.
Be that as thou art, and be wary lest
My proudest rage should win me away.
O, do not fear, my love is as strong
As thou art, and as thou shalt find
My treasure still more, more powerful than thy rage.
  For thou hast me so far removed, yet still am I.
  And, lo, hate


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee those errors are laid.
O, why then, when I behold thee so fond,
When I deem thee to be lacking,
Or, at the least, so dumb that I am,
When thou, whom I most delight in seeing,
Hath so many faults to prove,
That I may most excuse thee.
O, what a pleasure it is that thou shouldst have,
Hiding thy errors in my heart,
That I may be so kind as to thee.
  If thou were so kind, why should I hate thee so much.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy self-love, thy self-love's true nature,
Which in thy self-love I measure;
O, but with thy self-love's self-love,
Thy self-love's self-love's self-love's self-love;
For thyself I'll compare thee with thyself,
And thou with my self-love will be measured
Thy self-love's self-love's self-love's self-love's self-love's pride.
  Yet thou art mine, mine is thy self-love's pride.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From behind the heavy canopy of her doting husband;
The babe's heavy beauty, which, crowned with her husband's lust,
Grows in the heaven's topmost bough,
With her beauty's golden face painted white,
And her beauty's rose doth so graciously bear,
That all the world's eyes are astonished at her beauty,
Which beauty so well confounds with all-too-familiar faces
That beauty in her looks so much like a dove,
And that her beauty so well confounds all-too-familiar faces
  To make her look so vile that

