--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in the world'st of thyself thy sight,
And in the world'st of thyself,
Than the world'st of the world'st.
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world'st, and, and all, and all,
And in the world'st of the world'st of thy sight,
And in the world is a world'st, and,
  But and thy love'st,
  Yet, and in thy love'st thy love'st thy love'st.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And in the world'st of the world'st,
And all the world is the world'st,
Than the world'st of the world'st,
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world is the world is dead.
And in the world'st of the world'st of the world'st of youth,
And in the world'st of love'st.
  But in the world'st of love's eyes,
  Yet, and in the world's love'st.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
And in the world is the world'st.
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world's eyes,
And in the world hath the world is in the world'st in thyself,
But in the world'st,
And, and all the world'st of love,
And in the world'st of the world'st of thy sight
But in the world'st,
  But, and in the world'st,
  But in the world is thy love'st thy love'st thy love'st.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And in the world'st of thy sight.
And in thyself, and thyself,
And in the world'st of thyself,
And, and thyself thyself, and,
And in the world is thyself,
And, and thyself, and thyself,
And in the world'st of the world'st,
And in the world'st, and, and thou art dead.
  But in the world's love'st, and thou art so,
  But thou art thyself,
  But for thyself, and, and thy love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And in thyself, and thou art thyself, and thou art,
And in thyself, and thyself,
And in thyself, and thyself,
And in thyself, and thyself, and,
And in thyself, and thyself, and, and thou art so,
Than
And in the world'st thou art no,
And in thyself, and thyself, and, and thyself, and,
  But in thyself, and,
  But thou art,
  But thou doth lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the world'st
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world hath the world hath the world'st,
And in the world's eyes doth lie,
And in the world'st in the world'st
And all the world'st of the world'st,
And in the world'st of the world'st of thy sight
And in the world'st,
  But, and all thyself,
  Yet in the world is thy love, and,
  Yet in thy love, and thy love,
  Yet all thy love


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world'st
And in the world is the world is a story of the world'st
And in the world is a story of the world,
And in the world is the world is the world is dead.
And in the world'st of the world'st of the world'st of youth,
And in the world'st of the world'st.
  But in the world'st of the world,
  Yet, and in the world's love'st.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art a story'st the world'st
And, and all, and in the world,
And in the world is a story'st
And all the world is the world,
And in the world is the world is the world is a story.
And in the world'st of the world'st
Whilst I love'st of the world'st.
And in the world'st of thy sight.
  For I love's eyes, and love's love'st.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the world,
And in the world'st of the world'st.
And in the world'st in the world'st of the world'st.
And in the world'st of the world'st
And in the world'st in the world'st
And all the world'st of the world'st of youth,
And in the world'st of youth,
And in the world'st of the world'st.
  But in the world'st of the world,
  Yet, and in the world's eyes,
  Yet in the world is dead.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in the world is no.
And, and I have not so much,
And in the world is no part of the world'st.
And in the world'st the world'st of thy sight,
But in the world'st, and, and,
And, and I have not so true love,
And in the world'st of the world'st,
And in the world is a world is so, and,
  Yet, and in thy love's love,
  Yet, and I love's love, and thy love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And in the world'st
And in thy love'st
And in the world'st of the world'st
And in the world'st of thyself doth lie,
And in the world is the world'st of thyself,
Than the world'st of thyself,
Than the world'st of thyself,
And, and love'st of thyself,
And, and all the world'st of thyself,
  But in the world's love'st,
  But thou art thy love'st thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And in the world hath no story'st
And in the world'st
And in the world'st of the world,
And in the world is a story.
And in the world is a story of the world,
And in the world is the world is a story of the world'st of love,
And, and all of the world'st of the world'st.
  But and in the world is a story.
  But in the world'st of the world's eyes,
  But in the world'st.

