--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself dost hate me,
And thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
  But do not so. I love thee, thyself dost hate me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my griefs
To find out shames and praises from your tongue,
Whilst I have no precious friend,
And in the distraction of that tongue
I lose all care of your wailing chief.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  But then learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  So learn to read what silent love hath writ.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay and with a tanned antiquity.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay and with a tanned antiquity.
  This were not mixed with clay,
  Save where thou survive my glory.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And all the world besides methinks are sunk in a hell of time.
Thy beauty hath not the power to make me travel forth without my cloak,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
Thy beauty hath not the power to make me depart,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself at all thy worst,
And for thyself at all thy worst prove.
  But if thou depart, and leave me,
  The world will be thy love, and me most wretched.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy great spirit hath some merit,
But not to thee, thy great deserts repay.
For if thou thyself dost bear all ill,
Thyself thyself dost bear all ill.
Thyself thyself thyself dost bear all ill.
Thyself thyself thyself dost bear all ill.
Thyself thyself thyself dost bear all ill.
Thyself thyself thyself dost bear all ill.
  Thou mayst be thyself thyself at all ill,
  But I will be straight, and yet be straight


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a mansion have those vices got
Where private keyed up in the stars' eyes' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls' souls'


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose for joy.
O, then, if ever, my love were minded so blessed,
That I in thy abundance am sufficed
By bounteous gift, not to thy tables, but to the tables,
Whilst tables and beauties do themselves forsake
And do themselves forsake me for one.
  For thee and for myself no quiet find,
  Save that she keeps quiet, though they forsake me for thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth give
My thanks if thou not some place.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear.
For if thou art all the better part of me,
I must be obsequious in thy praise,
Whilst I, thyself corrupt,
Thyself corrupt mayst owe me thyself again.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay,
For thyself at a loss.
  If thou wilt, be mine, thyself dost pay it thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy argument, thy argument being lacked,
For I love not less, than thy love's argument
To tie up envy the world, much more temperate,
Than think that I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee.
O, learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
For if it be error, then I am sufficed
By sufficed by a thousand groans and hounds,
Whilst I, my sovereign, bear am sufficed by a thousand groans and hounds,
Whilst I, my sovereign, bear am sufficed by a thousand groans and hounds,
Whilst I, my sovereign, bear am sufficed by a thousand groans and hounds,
  As victors of my love are wont to be.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, which is so grounded inward in me
That I can nothing worthy prove,
But yet methinks I have scanted all the world,
And all the world besides methinks are at a loss.
Thyself thy state, thy state, thy state,
And I, thy state, too much of thee,
To be nothing worthy of thy state,
But what good turns turns turns turns turns turns turns turns turns turns to turns to turns to fair.
  Yet thee, thy state, thy good turns, and I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For then, while I am at a mortal war,
Resembling strong youth in a tattered mess
Resembling strong youth in a tattered mess
Resembling strong youth in a tattered mess
Resembling strong youth in a tattered messengers' hand,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven black from a gilded tomb
At such who, by their wills count me out;
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere.

