--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself dost hate me,
And thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
  But do not so. I love thee, thyself dost hate me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate,
For it no matter to me then although my fate lay.
O, let me suffer, dear friend,
When I suffer, though at the least,
The coward conquest and my frailer knife,
Whilst I, my friend, who is not acquainted
The bloody knife that wounded bosoms out
The bloody spur, which wounded bosoms out
The bloody spur, which wounded bosoms out;
  But shoot not at me, dear friend,
  For I love nothing, ever.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay and with clay,
With clay and with a tanned antiquity,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And by a thousand victories once foiled;
Then I have no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
And with clay I make myself engrafted to thee.
  This I have but one, and thine shall be my love,
  The hardest knife ill


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And trouble me half at a dream,
Whilst I have seen thee frowning on me half so ill,
For I love thee so strongly, and I do vow:
Thyself thyself dost love thee,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss;
For thyself at a loss; mine is not a joy
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
  But thou, thyself at a loss, and thine shall not seem so.
  Thou mayst be true, and thine shall be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy great spirit hath some merit,
But not to thy worth the greater, being that doth willfully appear.
Thyself thy great spirit hath some merit,
But not to thy worth the greater, being that doth willfully appear.
For thy worth then not to be assailed, be it ill or well-willed,
Whilst I, thyself corrupt, be it ill or well-willed,
Whilst I, thyself at all ill or well-willed,
Save what is best.
  Thou mayst be false, be it ill or well-


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose is there,
The rose is a sweet odor
That dost thou thy sweet self forsake.
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
They look but in a pure unstained prime
And do not drop in for an afterloss.
Then do not drop in for an afterloss.
O, do not drop in that I love thee;
Thyself away are thy sweet self again after thy defeat.
  But do not drop in that bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose for joy.
So then I dare to be fair, though at a frown,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And like a sad slave, in hope of some joy
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
His mistress' tongue doth sing,
And her mistress' tongue doth sing,
Whilst I, my mistress' wilt prove,
And her mistress' tongue doth sing:
  "Sweet love, if ever,
  As


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true:
Thy outward is thy outward, inward in inward praise.
But in thy outward praise is all my praise,
And all my most most most most most most most most most most-precious pen,
And in thy most most most most most most most most most most most most-precious pen
As if by thy most-precious pen did but copy what in thee.
  Yet so thy worth then not to be scorned,
  Unless thou wilt prove me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire,
To do more for me than tongue-tied despisers tend.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire,
To do more for me than tongue-tied despisers tend.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy name blesses an ill report.
Thy name blesses an ill report.
  But what's so blessed-fair that can speak
  That tongue that more hath more expressed his praises.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
It is the heart that bears the strong offense's cross
Whilst 'tis writ in stone, or tall building blocks of the sun,
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, the tenth muse.
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, who in thee
Doth sing: "This poet lies, and in me is allayed."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To be absent from thy state, where thou dost stay.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
  But thou, thy state, and thy charter to import forgetfulness.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, and my mistress' knife,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  Yet then begins a journey in my mistress' knife,
  As she walks with my mistress' knife.

