--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes and thy heart's flame are gone,
The most blessed jewel in the world.
Mine eye, that blazoned with thy visage
Can hold so much glory in thy sight,
When thou art so blessed that my love doth hold.
Thou art so cruel, so barren, so barren of all thy grace,
That I can make all my sad tears flow,
And that I will sell thee for all that thou wilt pay.
  This is the worst that can happen, to me,
  If thou shouldst make my love hell and burn with thy rage.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That if thou wilt, thou wilt be held prisoner
To my love's burden of almost-substantial loss,
Or, worse still, to be imprisoned in death's eternal womb.
Thou wilt be held as a prisoner for ever,
For evermore imprisoned and never to be found
Nor to be found again.
O, what shame would that woman in my thoughts
Be turned into thine own child if my heart were thine,
For then she would bear me to death!
  And for that she must be buried,
  Where many her shows doth lie.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can live.
Now I am a fool, and thou thy gav'ring cost.
For what am I to steal from thee, thou art mine,
And, if any, be too rich for me to pay?
The gav'ring cost of a queen is much greater than thy life.
For thou art the gav'ring'st, and thy worth much greater than mine.
  Thou then, truly, the greatest of all,
  Being the fairest and the most worthiest.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That thou must forfeit, for I am so wretched that dost hold
The dearest hope of succeeding:
My dear love is so removed from thee,
That if I should lose thee, I should be so grieved
As to lose thee alone,
And lose thee alone with thy treasure.
Yet, thou, my love, be so in love
As to lose me more than I lose thee;
Thou art so at the cross of love's storm
That I should lose not by thy loss,
But by thy loss that thou shouldst lose me.
  Thy love, for thy loss


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou that shun'st thy sight,
Thy sight's gateways, thy soul's gate,
Or thy body's control, or thy soul's soul's control,
Thy sight's access hath no control, nor thy sight's control.
O, this dearest virtue, thou to thyself shalt be condemned
For thy sight's truth may deny,
For it cannot use thy sight's gates but thine.
  And if thy sight use not thy sight's gate,
  Thou shalt be condemned there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when thou perceiveest, they answer,
"Beauty is in thy view,"
And thou, seeing beauty, dost wink
That thou not thyself to know how thy sight doth lie.
Yet thou, that hath sight, dost look on thy lip;
For that thou know'st thou dost see,
Thou, being blind, dost perceive not thy sight
To be that which thou see'st not thyself.
  All these reasons are enough for thee,
  To that which thou art blind to behold.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With bonds that may be checked and checked checked.
I hold no such view as your dear love would deny
To some adulterate swindle that might be proved.
My love is in all things checked,
And I am doubly virtuous, though my deeds be wrong.
But to your love I acknowledge that my worth is not determined
By the merit of my deeds,
That is, not to yourself but to myself I acknowledge.
  Thus my love is not so much checked as you think;
  For all things, I am better than that which you think.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make me swear on thy beauty,
And then, if my love is found wanting,
My loving tongue might well inform me
Of thy gift, and would forbid thee me to tell
The truth of this matter;
For if thou approve of this crime,
Then shouldst suffer much disgrace in me,
And be esteemed so dignified
That I would leave thy rank place,
If thine eye could find thee my advocate.
  But be not so kind a husband or husband's wife
  As I commend thee to my love,
  As to my praise should thou advocate me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief.
Thine satire, all gilded and all impeached,
Doth but provoke my fury, and I rage
Against thee with the most bloody fury.
Hate is not the worst of these insults,
And most of these then will please my mind,
So that when I am most sick of pleasure,
Thy scythe hits the ground, and I am condemned.
O, how I much hate to die!
I hate to die twice; each time I am condemned.
  O, so be not so; for I will live far more happy
  Than a maiden


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For in thee I see them all wrong,
For many a god hath placed in my breast.
But thou, my love, who didst approve my sin,
Comes so gladly to my o'ergreen sight,
Which perceiveth not my faults but that thou alone art my love.
Thou canst not hate men for what they love,
  For me thou so lov'st is my love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou hast my love's rank, my love's state,
And me when thou o'erlooks
Are all abysm and all maladies contracted,
Pitiful weeds and dead trees, and waste, wretched things;
For thy right to love is in thy own pleasure,
Which, like to death, I so hate
That I by my adverse effect will hang,
And in thy own shame shall hang all my shame.
  But thy love, like to death, may live,
  Because it is so far from me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Spurs it away by the wind, and gives the babe another place.
But, scythe-wielding, I fear thou me most;
For thou, my love, with thine eye
Thou art the first to take that away.
For, like a true thief, thou canst not stay
Than I, thy thief of my love's garments.
Since then thou know'st such a thief that thou must steal,
Thou art the thief that fears me the most.
  For when thou art mine, I will be thy thief,
  And, for th

