--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thyself thy sweet self thy self too cruel.
For if thyself were minded so,
By thy deeds I must not be self-willed,
Nor thou, mine own worth, mine, mine own worth, nor thyself be self-willed.
If thou mine eyes I read this line, remember not
The lines that thy sweet face painted new
To draw thy pity more short, more short, more obsequious,
As all other in all other words come; yet be so dumb, despite thy show.
  This I will vow: love thee out; so thou mayst


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As if by some instinct the worst of me I choose
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
His rider loved not stop his speed, being stopped.
Such is my love that keeps mine eye on thee
Whilst the worst of thee, my best endowed with my great mind
To ride this beast with my woe, despite his badness.
Heav's not had enough my woe, my woe,
To be a taker and a worthless boat captain.
  Yet glad I have drawn this line, and do it wrong:
  The worst is love that in thee commits


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not too dear.
For to thy worth then is not paid what is paid.
He stole that word that I think,
And found it in my tongue
And found it in my tongue that used it.
He stole that word, and found it,
Whilst he stole that word
And found it in my tongue, too.
He stole that word and found it in my tongue;
He stole the word
And found it in my tongue. He stole that word, and found it in my tongue
  His sad song, which he loved so.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With mine eye saucy themes and thee too.
Thy appetite I all thy sweet and lovely argument,
Whilst thou dost beguile me thine own assailed;
Against thy will and mine own scythe and crooked knife.
Thy black is fairest than thy gentle love's love,
And I fear not to be that,
Whilst I have scythe and thee in my appeal deny.
  O, learn to read what thy true needs.
  If thou do not learn to read what thy needs.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy defect is that in me that is not self-love.
Thy self thou thy foe is not to thy sight, let me be obsequious,
For thyself at a confined doom,
But thou dearest and am I still sufficed
Whilst others' scythe and thee do themselves forsake,
And hang more praise upon thy deeds:
For thyself at a loss thou prove.
  Thou prove ten times better.
  Thou be mine, thyself dost love me and thee.
  If thou be mine, thyself dost love me be false


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, love, be they, faint, and speechless;
Resembling a tattered woe, full of blame,
And by limping sway with a tattered girded mine eye
Doth spot the beauty of thy eyes,
Beauty's rose, with all too short a date.
O, do not so. I love thee, be do so;
Thyself thy love's rose, thy sweet self!
Be as thy presence is, mine eye and heart's right,
And in thy right my heart may be thy advocate.
  This were not to be a


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, too excellent, do pluck them where they abide.
She hath, and in these last ten times
Than think the world well or evil luck or wit
At the least, like a sad slave, stay or call me thrifty,
Save where I so enjoy
She keeps such a beauty still and, like a sad slave, stay
On such a sad note do I seem;
She keeps my love as a death,
Enjoyed but with loss.
  She keeps so, like a sad slave; she hath no leisure taken.
  She never saw a goddess go;


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou not on my verse evermore enlarged,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, what a mansion have I seen! Where can my lameness and am I so blessed
That if evermore enlarged,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
Be as thy advocate and a tattered despison
Whilst I am at a loss, and then by a gain
But then begins a journey in my love and hate
To find out shames and praises of the world,
  All those things that love and hate are loved by thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy gentle grace hath all thy right,
But if aught add a wrinkle;
Such seems a virtue hath all thy right.
If it were, say, I swear,
The basest and most most most most most most loving breast
Wishing on thy sweet self-love,
Whilst thinking on thee for my love,
Thyself at least kind-hearted prove.
I grant, if all my lameness and my frailer state
Save where thou dost bear all thy state.
  But if thou wilt prove me, thou wilt prove me


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For it is his passion that doth love.
It is true that when in thee my heart doth dwell
My basest help, mine own worth nothing, to mend or change.
It is true that in me speaking of love,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Resembling strong youth in a tattered morrow,
Suff'ring at a beggar's gate
To thrust into the gate of my breast,
For 'tis not enough that through the eyes' of all men's pride
To prove a tattered herd of souls possessed.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To sit in the rearward of a wailing wife's glass
Whilst other write good words, and like unlettered clerk still cry amen
Thy worth the greater, being mine.
Thy registers and thee I love nothing less,
When other petty griefs and sicken lookish men
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease;
  For thy reasons do I dispense:
  My worst fears are but the wailing of a woe;
  My love,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The sad augurs mock their own presagers' eyes out of their spheres of endless age,
Whilst I, a tyrant, do vow all my graces
And hang more praise upon the book of my lovers' lives
Than niggard churl, the wretch's wretch's tongue,
Whilst I lose thee, my love, and my vow,
Save what I lose, my love's sweet love's sweet love's sweet love's sweet.
  For thy love remembered not to be,
  This were to be new, and then allayed.

