--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making love, goddess of pity,
Naming thee that whom thou gav'st.
The earth hath her eyes, but mine eyes mead,
As to my griefs is to my sorrows unbidden.
In their absence have I heard the deep sighs of the deceased,
And for their sad song I hear the gaudy
Of trophies gone bad and for their sour song
O'erthroned dead flowers and for their mournful woe.
  But the very air that my love breathes doth be mute.
  Lo, my love fears no slander,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That the thought which I in the first ev'ry frame
Could do away a hideous death
In a lover's lover's bosom with gentle ease;
Nor would it prevent me from thinking on you,
Nor anything that would make my grief more evident;
But the heart that debarketh on me would be a cruel tyrant,
Which for his own purpose I should torture with every sound.
Nor would I prevent that spirit which sheds blood
To gush out infection with every infection.
  And thou, so sweet-hearted am I, am my friend,
  For thou art my sweet poison


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not take
My leisure to see the jewels which thine eye
Admit upon thy pattern.
If thou hast some need of fortune, dost it call
To steal away my treasure, so that no man can take it
From thee for my lawful pleasure
To steal thee away from me.
But if not, my dear friend, thou art in such need
Of expense that thou canst mend a thief
And steal his treasure away from me.
  For if in my love I steal from thee,
  My love will be proved false, and my treasure
  To be converted into wealth


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For joy at all thy faults and most dull faults.
Thou dost hate not mine own jealousy,
Nor mine own envy nor mine own spite
The bold, bigoted laws that to these most low measure
Whose influence my lusty affections have kept from going mad.
Nor are thy sins more heinous than mine;
Thou to thyself dost kill all kind of them.
Mine own jealousy swerves like a dove to the ground;
Mine own pride doth base rage against the world,
Thy own cruel nature against his sake.
  And these hate's imaginary parallels thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy cause when I travel this way,
And thence I dare not seem dumb,
For my loving minded absence alone art my friend;
My interest in thee leaves behind me
No main, no special purpose;
In me thou art the maiden sight;
And thy name is not thy feature,
Nor thy worth thy lines, nor thy height nor thy strength's wealth.
Mine own worth is thy abundance,
And my worth the sum of all thy deeds.
  This I will not deny, though thy deeds say so.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They see in beauty nothing but what thou think'st
And the very best of them see beauty in thy face.
This view is thine, the precious jewel,
And the fairest jewel, the least that is worth.
Thou art the blessed envy of them that see
That they know not what thou waste'st there in thee.
They know nothing that hath worth but thy grace
Beauty thy shade of bounty.
Therefore thou art the counterfeit of their beauty.
  Thine art thy cunning, and methinks their sense
  Makes false things more false than truth itself.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And bring me out of my woe in her policy of it.
So I hope in the flowers you give
That I am true, and to thee this happy title.
O, when flowers lose their shape they lose their beauty,
A thousand times more strong than beauty's veil.
If an apple blinks, I am in love with thee.
If a dove, with his tendrils removed,
Tames a dove with his salve,
Plagues an ere he comes out of the water.
  But in these things thou shall know, for I to thee it is built
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou excuse my being hungry,
I'll show thee thy sword,
Like a murd'rous murd'rous warrior,
Who, loathsome indeed, hath taken away thy widow's treasure.
Even if thou be the first murd'rous offender,
No child will bear my name,
Nor my love nor my love's name but thee.
The universe is cruel and barren,
And all women are but vassals to men.
  Yet my grief lends strength to thee,
  Where thou art made and not self-made.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much grief.
Thy mind is a prisoner, wherein no shade lies.
If it receivest no praise, why should I not esteem
Thy spite, which dost write thee,
And why should I not praise thee on this score?
If I should disgrace thee, do not hold my tongue
Nor compare my wit with thy humble fault.
Thou, my sovereign, art the great bane of such wretched subjects,
That make all men's lives and all their tribes dumb.
  Thy ruined love, that in thy pride doth hang.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For that which in thee I most hate.
Let me not be cruel to the true heart,
For thou'st must be one, and I dare not be blunt
The proud pride of such a proud heart;
Thou my due, my due alone,
And thy basest fears shall set my heart free
And repair my state's wrong.
Such as in thine eyes hate,
The frowning frown that my 'crazed eye doth blot out
And then, blotting the sweetest stain on thee.
  But thou in thy heart's love, my heart's pride,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But not of thine own love but of thy worth.
But that thy worth should confound a view
The shame of sin, despised not only by men,
But almost murd'rous everywhere!
For thou forst thyself dost set down these epithets,
Thy self beuvers thy worth and love's subject,
For love's love dost love thee but with thy hate.
  'Tis true that that from thy lusty countenance
  My sins are more heinous than thy loving thoughts.
  I be happy, and for this I love thine,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
With such swift succession doth my muse,
Who to this time with another perusal doth mow the field,
Shallowing the proud plough why he should bestow.
O, not with me thus scythe that's behind,
Barefooted for my love, being crowned
And crowned with all the world's most proud sun;
O, not with me thus sayeth that thou hast my love,
For thou'st me as my muse dost strangle.
  For myself, my love is remembered by so many,
  That therefore, having it termed,

