--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Sing hymns of thy excellence,
Thy graces for love and thee thy loving name.
That frown that hath been so constant in thy bosom,
Shall my beloved lips ear, even to thy show,
Rise and weep at thy evil deeds?
The dear love that in thee so triumph doth live,
Doth in one bower bear the wealth of all my love's face.
O, true love, canst thou breathe?
No, my dear love, this is my sad report;
None can blame me for it, other than thou.
  Thou do


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For by the treasure I might have been but impostor,
Though I in love's false fears well mounted
To death, in chains I must sleep;
But then heart is to myself so full with torture,
My soul doth cry: 'Thy woe is so cruel my false desire proved!
O, what can rage at thy hand?
Who's more cruel to death than my heart that I see!
'Tis this, my friend, that puts rage into my soul:
 'Tis that it keeps myself more awake awake
Than thou sleep'st, when thou prove


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine self
Are all ne'er corrupt.
For thou mightst not be so dost rob where I dwell
That so vile a thief in my doings might find
Some grace that should doom me here and there.
Such fears I will be wary of myself,
And shiver in fear that their most oppressed tend
To mend their broken graces by their abuses.
And when that I find myself thus charged with wrong,
For shame and most miserly doves,
I curse thee, and I thrust myself to be gone.
  But what do I have but thee to do?
  Thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For from thee all my spite will be distilled.
Be wary though thou art enforced,
For in my hope, love, and all my dearest will,
I'll send thee all my grief,
With love's decease, and the world chide thee.
Come not by my lawful blind force,
And lose thy liberty, or shame or shame's disgrace.
Thou art so dumb that I will not audit thy ruination.
When audit hath determined thy crime,
Thou will be impeached, and the world's eye directed,
Not to audit but to thee.
  In


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Since thou art sick in this quest to prove
Thy defect hath to be confined to thee,
For if thou decease me thou art the first prey
To find an inhabitant thou in dwell'st,
But thy lascivious love lives in all the sad afflictions.
I will now cross that line of policy,
To lie in wait for my assistance,
And think whether I am possessed with thy vassal's hatred,
  Because thy defect is so unmoved,
  That thou must be thy servant even in myself break.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They behold that which their souls view,
They know that through that beauty they see thine own face,
And that from their decease they straightward leap,
From their love's shade onward they must flee.
That they should with thee's assistance seek fortune where
Dull simplicity and deformed shame thrive
In lofty deserts that lay waste all their fair rights.
O, have not the sea and the sky noted
That thou mightst steal many'st from me,
  Which mightst not rob my dear loved, nor thy fortify thee.
   O, how am I blameless


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I forget the leisure of my love's days.
It is with such a determination that I in love's love
Make unions as the desert in the desert;
And yet this determination is in great sense doth my heart
Than in profound hatred of this holy sovereign woman.
My love's bitterness and jealousy, like strong and full spheres,
Hath almost the full sense of their intermingled rage
Which with my love's willful accidents turns extreme.
Thou do most wretched, my sweet love! But when thy nature mak'st such onset
That I know I have been nursed


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Show me not another child in thy beauty
Where their blood doth flow;
Naming but thou which impiety lays on me.
Be my jewel, my precious wife's jewel;
If mine are esteemed but thee, then they can mock
And I no more boast.
Thou most precious thing, mine most precious, be not esteemed more,
But esteemed less is the thought of thee.
  For thee my loving love is to be strong,
  To do so even in thine own spite.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express me more.
For I in truth most need ruminate,
Than when poets invent novel ink,
Than when thou shouldst keep thee in my copy
On that which lies spread wide.
Hearing thee when thou sendest my churls doth sweetest delight
To have words of love added to my song.
Make no man to write for thee,
Thy churl dost devise songs, so thy happy song.
But find thou thy most dear love not in my poorly built churl
Nor methinks within the banks of full banks.
  For when some depart, mine


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That keeps me that way, willing to desert that which it loves.
So, I love thou, thou whose lovely chest doth bear an embarassage.
I love not that I am strange in feeling,
Nor that I weep on thy chest's chest's seeing,
Nor that I cry out to thee in thy deeds.
O, what a wretched waste of time shouldst thou in thy dressing dost curse!
Nor can my poor sport blame thee,
Nor have I, though thee rare in so strange a state!
  But since thou art mine, I deny thee my care.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And when thou be'st this content to me
For remembrance of thy services,
I will, to thy good pleasure, be buried;
For if in this woe no remembrance was the woe,
My verse with thee be lost.
O, how dost thou suborned thy neglect,
Or, by being so miserly a slave,
Were better used as tongues to express thee,
Which should now prove rotten shouldst thou be buried.
  Thus thy decayed argument is:
  'Thou art by no means less true to me than all those things that are;
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Without her there are no foes to fight;
For nothing is so bold then, dear child, that when another doth meet
He doth throw an ambush on her;
Nor hath there ever been more cruel ambush in the world.
Than, yet, still so, so frank is thy report,
That thou my love hath but one tongue to sing,
For that thee in thy lameness cannot cross
And still drown thee in his shore.
  Therefore, be quite wary when thou travel,
  My verse so never drowns thee.

