--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Beaming at thy hideous waste.
For thou art so, my love, and I so,
Thy eyes so much like mine own,
That in their deep-sunken grief I weep;
And so, for thy sake, I do this:
Mine eyes are so heavy they will not see thee
When they see that I am in their grief;
They will see that I am sick and that I am in their joy;
But their eyes are like thine, and they know not thy grief.
  Their eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
  Have


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If I be found guilty of many wrongs?
For to myself I must bear all the guilt,
And all the shame of my crime.
But to myself I must be contented,
For all my shame is not enough to me,
Nor can I be so kind as I am now.
I must not be so cruel to my crime,
Nor be so kind as I now am.
  For I am a murd'rous murd'rous woman,
  Which, though I live, yet I beauteous.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not be missed.
If thou wilt find a treasure which shall not be missed,
Thy treasure shall not be my pride nor my pride's pride's shame;
I will steal thy treasure, and thou my pride's treasure shall live.
If thou steal thy treasure, thou art my treasure,
And thou shalt be remembered, since I am my treasure.
  Thou art my treasure, and I treasure thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art so much more than me,
Than in my love's love's love's love's bastard,
And when I am gone, thou art my most hated husband;
Thou art the more hated of all my love's bad deeds.
But if thou wilt be hated, let me know
That thou art so hated that I will hate thee.
For I am so hated that thou art so hated that I am hated,
And then shall I hate thee in hell,
  And so shall I hate thee in heaven.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the first to be converted,
And then, being converted, thou shalt be converted
To thy blind and blind mind's eye,
And thus shalt I live,
For thou, being converted, shall live in my sight
And then be converted to thy blind mind's eye,
And thence to thy blind mind's eye's eye
And thence to thy blind mind's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye,
And thence to thy brain's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's eye's


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know not that thy sight is decease,
They know that thou art my eye and that thou art my sight.
For thou art my decease, thou art my sight,
And thou art my love, my love's due.
Thou art my thief, my thief's art my sight.
Thou art my prey, my prey's prey,
And thou art my prey's prey,
  And thou art my prey's prey.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That in her bosom the world might see
That beauty's substance may be shaken,
That my love's rotten body might be cured.
But, truth be told, I love her more than most
That all the world knows and all men know.
Her true name is not so much as a thing masked
But she hath this in common,
That all men to whom she lives are acquainted.
  To be fair she is not so much as a beggar's advocate
  As some doting rich-purchased doting mother,
  But that in common I find her most true.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thy sweet love hath been despised in many parts,
And this is thy reason why thou dost love me so.
Thou art, in many a jealous eye,
And if not, then, at least I should be thy friend.
For if thou, forsworn love, should abuse me,
Thy love hath done injury to me in many parts.
So my love is despised in many parts,
And I in many a jealous eye.
  But if thou, forsworn love, should abuse me,
  Thy loving hand doth do the injury.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy frown upon my heart's contentment.
O, let my pen be my muse,
And my verse be my hymn,
And my verse be thy praise.
For thou art so, my love, that my verse
Is the only true and true thing
Of thy sweet thoughts.
  Be not so kind to my heart's contentment
  As thou art to my heart's contentment.
  Be not so kind to my heart's contentment
  As to thy sweet thoughts, which I love more than I hate.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And all their faults I witness;
And I to thee they all slander,
And thou, all their faults I witness.
But thou, all their faults I witness,
And all their faults I prove,
And I am their prisoner,
And they all tyrannous slander in me.
  And yet thou, all their faults I witness,
  And all their faults I prove.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And my dear love's pride, which hath grown in thee,
Hath grown to such a height that thou, my love,
Cannot boast such a state.
For thou art the true love of me,
And in me thou art the true advocate,
Thy love's worth so high that thou cannot boast
But that thou dost love me, being so.
  For thou art the true advocate of thine,
  That is, to my love, to thy advantage.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, like a dove, she can leap,
Sets up her prey, and doth catch her
In the open air, where the swift-footed dove doth dwell.
So, like a dove, she can leap,
Making her prey, and doth catch her
In the air, where the swift-footed dove doth dwell.
  But that is not the beauty of love;
  For it is not so, nor the swift nor the dove
  To catch the dove in the air, where it doth dwell.

