--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou, thyself dost bear the foul.
For if thou wilt, I be cast away,
The coward conquest of a woe, and a widow,
Whilst I, thy vassal bound to bear all care
And by a widow well beweep my woe,
Whilst thou, thyself dost bear all care
Thyself thy widow and thy widow.
  But if thou wilt leave me,
  I leave thee, and thine image dies.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my soul's thought
To find out shames and praises from mine eye
Whilst I, my most high deserts all ill or all ill.
O, no, then, my love is as a death;
As I ne'er-snowed with a gilded tomb
Thy lover's tongue, though less tongue,
Than of your sweet self dost love speak.
  This tongue that writ I love
  Makes me tongue that more common
  Makes me tongue that more common than ever.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I be cast away, like a worthless boat,
Whilst my life hath not the power to repair
My life hath no end.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, blunt thou thyself in my bending sickle's compass.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost hold me up afloat,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss,
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
To be thy self again after thyself decease.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be straight,
  The worst was this: thyself dost beguile


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might be a waste of wasted fuel.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might be thy waste.
  Thine eyes are nothing like the sun; thy outward is thy outward,
  And thy outward is thy outward part.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
They see what dark days when dark days when dark days do hush,
And dark days when dark days when bright days do hush
With dark days when dark days when dark days do hush,
And nights bright days when dark days do hush
And nights bright days when dark days do hush;
But when the blind do see,
The sad day arising,
And sad night arising,
Sap checked with a woe, the woe,
And sad day arising,
  And sad night, which with a woe do


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty, and that churl
Above a frown, whereupon I abide.
Then, if like a jewel, I have some precious jewel,
That like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes lascivious comments on my beauty,
Like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To hear her speak, like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To hear her speak, like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To hear her speak, like unlettered clerk still cry amen
  To hear her speak,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thee thy verse all is writ.
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in me all is writ,
And in thee all is writ,
And all the while I in thee do write,
The very worst essays, the better part of me
Than think that I have writ, the better part of thee.
  For thee, thyself at all times,
  As I am now all the better part of thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy argument, thy argument being lacked,
A pure unstained prime, inferior far to a worthless song.
Thee have I heard praise the wretch's woe,
Whilst I have heard the dull sound of the wretch's woe,
Whilst I have heard the dull sound of the wretch's woe,
And thou, my lameness, blunt thou the wretch's knife,
Whilst I have not seen the wretch's woe;
  Yet do thy office, despite thy scythe and thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
For if it be error, or 'tis writ,
The basest beast that bears me,
The coward conquest of a woe,
Whilst I have no leisure taken
To weigh how once I suffered in thee.
I have seen a beggar, though a pure unstained woe,
And a beggar born of a woe;
But, like a beggar, I do vow:
  I will not be true despite thy will,
  Unless thou wilt prove me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, not to thy state,
But to thy state, where thou dost abide.
Thy state, thy state, thy charter to thee,
Whilst I have charter thee to this purpose,
And thou dost hereby be thy state,
Whilst I have charter thee to this purpose,
And thou dost hereby be disposed
To make me bow, and then bow,
To be thy state, and good report.
  This wish I have, then, though this wish,
  That I have thee, and thine will be all my state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For if it were not from thee,
My passion, though new-appearing,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name,
Whilst it is not my love that flies,
Whilst it is my love that flies,
Whilst it is not my love that flies,
But, like a sad slave, it is my love that flies,
Whilst it is my love that flies,
And it is my love that flies,
Whilst it is not my love that flies,
And it is my love that flies,
Whilst it is not my love that flies,

