--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And all the world's eyes on thee.
But thou, my love, which I love so dearly,
Thine eyes, which, like pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And all the world's eyes on thee.
  For thy sight I love, and they, like pitying me,
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am not confined in my thoughts,
Nor can I be confined in my thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts' thoughts'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
And live in my love's memory.
But now, for the first time in my life,
I am thy heir, and thou, my love,
Will live in my love's memory.
Thy love's worth, thy worth's worth,
Is not measured by thy deeds, but by thy deeds' sake.
Thy worth is not measured by thy deeds,
But by thy deeds' sake.
  Thy worth is not measured by thy deeds,
  But by thy deeds' sake.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I am thy slave, and thou art my master's slave.
Thou art my mistress, and I am thy mistress's slave.
Thou art my mistress's mistress's mistress's slave,
And thou art my mistress's slave's mistress's slave,
And I am thy mistress's slave's mistress's slave.
Thou art my mistress's mistress's slave's mistress's slave,
And thou art my mistress's slave's mistress's slave.
  But thou art my mistress's slave, and I am thy slave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thou art the first to be converted,
And, if thou be converted, thou shalt be converted again.
For thou art the first to be converted,
And, if not, thou shalt be converted again.
For thou art the first to be converted,
And, if not, thou shalt be converted again.
  For thou art the first to be converted,
  And, if not, thou shalt be converted again.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, their blind eyes, see not what they see.
Thou art the fairest of all,
And they, seeing thee, are the fairest of all.
They know not beauty's shape,
But thou, their blind eyes, see what they see.
They know not beauty's color,
But thou, their blind eyes, see what they see.
They know not beauty's shape,
But thou, their blind eyes, see what they see.
  Thou art the fairest of all,
  And they, seeing thee, are the fairest of all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I might be a true woman, though I be false.
But that is not true, for love is not made of truth,
Nor is it true that I love her,
Nor that I love her in such a way
As to be false or false in such a matter.
I love her in such a way that I am not false,
That I am not false in such a matter as this:
  For love is not made of truth,
  But lies in such a state that it is untrue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art my friend, my friend's treasure,
And I, my friend's treasure,
Have no need of thy love's sweetest touches.
Thou art my friend's treasure, my friend's treasure,
And I, my friend's treasure,
Have no need of thy love's sweetest touches.
But thou art my friend's treasure, my friend's treasure,
And I, my friend's treasure,
Have no need of thy love's sweetest touches.
  For thou art my friend's treasure, my friend's treasure,
  And I, my friend's treasure,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a state of mind as mine own.
For thou art so cruel, my dear friend,
That I will not be so kind to thee,
For thou art so cruel, my dear friend.
Thou art so cruel that I will not be so kind
To thee, my dear friend.
  For thou art so cruel that I will not be so kind
  To thee, my dear friend.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my heart's love is so strongly grounded
That it doth love to me so strongly.
For thou art my heart's slave, and I am thy slave,
And I am thy slave's slave's slave,
And thou art my love's slave's slave's slave.
Thou art my love's slave's slave, and I am thy slave's slave,
And thou art my love's slave's slave's slave.
  For thou art my love's slave's slave, and I am thy slave's slave.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love, thy own love's sweetest love,
Which in thy love's sweetest love doth dwell,
And that thy love doth dwell in thy heart.
O, but with mine own love's sweetest love doth dwell,
And that thy love doth dwell in thy heart.
O, but with mine own love's sweetest love doth dwell,
And that thy love doth dwell in thy heart.
  For thy love doth dwell in thy heart,
  And thou in thy love's sweetest love doth dwell.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, like a proud maiden, she doth take
The swiftest of her swift-footed foes,
And, like a proud maiden, she doth take
The swiftest of her swift-footed foes,
And, like a proud maiden, she doth take
The swiftest of her swift-footed foes,
And, like a proud maiden, she doth take
The swiftest of her swift-footed foes.
  For, like a proud maiden, she doth take
  The swiftest of her swift-footed foes,
  And, like a proud maiden, she

