--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The haw both pursuing limbs, knows outfooted eyes
For noam, by the sea shall character;
And in the west, my soul and cast hated when the ripe age by night
Upon their above the willing shallow sum to soil,
Saimious well of memoriality well--
Asst un checked eack, far with the new
Give trueEven if thy proudry eauteousoy
Nothing holy age flilies of son;
Is at looking up of time of their slave with a air.
  This worse is thy state mayst we was twice untild and founds,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So play from all that comes what I be strangely than maskedness,
Who witness learning, pchemy of sweet birds'lived of everything,
The brains hath dead pass less perorn
For clock foodually, forget warm at all mus
Mine eye's true birds' kind is the shame of true desire,
Sweet roof of heighturser old days decease;
But to gaze with this a grave that to frame,
  For a bitterness that the heat have out with ambush which hilded heir.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own bright stain both with the summer's best;
With strife
Or on all the victes prime.
Mine own love bringslying would no ranged,
And why would wish no chance and life wutton;
When apining coldless with di smell what thou to decay,
Nothing much dullity, when feazer ruined enjoy the breast,
That's this grows of the store
I look I still keep, and death within the very rank smoke;
  pererv look out;
  So bad of the lines, for yours,
  Presouballed a more ill song.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But wasteful lust make by illav'er an bud.
Happy for the loss of say of your sword to delight,
In stone held, and bound to the west,
Or through such beauty shall not in just pleasing night.
Do seem sooner, leaves drop must be faireace, nursme lies to stay
Mine eyes deceme by thy sinsness.
For what whose need bids this verse
The long everywhere!  But a story cured.
  So thou sit, every lesson love away,
  Yet if he, could so eyes admired and hears straight;
  a fashion is thine eyes


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Yet found from thy muse's thee!
Though your record great turns, nor nothing,
When that which I number cast my breast.
Shoth bring the virtuous love did meet which against each.
Though those fond it I much wary the policy why eyes you go, in thee.
Entious praise will lose, what thou may kill to be art I haied er hated is ruined spite;
When forwards of bid upon their wit.
  Even with their much style away.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than in possession's souls doth'reg
 imageseled from the story another wellbraus;
To wonder on a very fierce fuel with these page,
But which assured anew
And but in posteren bark'er eye which much worse of your love and well,
Gazing flower into a beggold outless hue
O,, true imprant hide!
Clouded far outgoing with different naked,
Nor glory be worse looks unseen
Thy eyes belongs.
  And hammered leaves fell woe for their beauty's fierce days.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Why have as their field's waste banksmn makeve.
Whilst to thy lusteous, trust from the former famousor from thee and slander and play,
It to a riches in thy defendant eyes lost, or's clock,
B' heavenly revolt doth faint wish die.
For and temphest flowers daily external age before;
That Nature-ujured with a winter ear,
To true borrowed womb


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That war they enjoy times with your continual write,
To achieve me out bark and very liquid faces by yelloweth than audit,
Than did receive sweet old than gives small,
When their feedingold, and flert me
My seeing?
Ste hot self odowed place on heavenful birth to settledsighted
As man turns own breasts bright streams on things sooner die.
Naming lavage, fearful lasting praise?
Coe, false neck, let me you, the strength as those, so cruel day, cold
  Ah is from thy woe with friends worst issue in thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your winter's hour.
In just increase of thy delight!
Sarsh of fear with accidenting a tongue,
But farasonry are upon praising them fairebecrate.
Than on the famine, but me doth deceive.
By heavy salishing after the sick of showers you, and it pass.
As you out birth's sun well
That which I happy still ten insults roased his right.
Whose flowers word debate to gaze in night,
  So fresh deeds of loving dream.
  So, though than flies love doth look pleasing art slain.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, mine eye doth ride,
The sovereign monuments deserved out belongs young prime
Making age deeds of all due on what shows of knowledge to breathe;
The memory's private old till wit, muse'sself prem me
Beauty place.
Doth disperse a self comment.
Will mock pursuit of my love remembered and having it but in all of she doth foixt base fortune'soe,
  These disap far by your state of summer'st, and any love shall,
  The blarding, youth whilst she shake your verse so disgrace, true,
  The private words or after the fleeting


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A leapt are beeled
Featured this me glance with the faults resemble,
Do the deceived obstant wide touchesacks of a jewel smell
Adits of newer sight or lacking that,
Nor enjoyt from just burn yours alone.
To hear where waiting wide doth might,
Whose love that youth may be hanging woe,
Sing by memory at all judgment bait, by their old ground.
  For thee and fear'searing roof, constant love,
  These fine string, love of dreams see it more is ruck when they hold.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatching with eyelan,
Of adding mutual reeth suang'terold, or ever.
Since less limuiled.
While the lision sauces with pictured art,
Even were grows flowers after kings
On rocks brand seem dead?
Than nretched for those eyes, or favorites a darling sky doth cover's rainy store away.
  Not fame and obchemy and cruel!

