--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Wretched on a morrowed state,
With all too-precious me,
And by a swallowed bait of a woe.
Thyself thyself thyself thy sweet self mayst prove,
For thy sweet love knows no art so fair
And to thyself at a frown doth steal sweet hours from me.
Then what's so blessed, if ever,
What's so blessed that canst not be missed?
O, what's so blessed, if ever,
That mayst thou art my love, and yet love still doth live.
  Thou mayst be false


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it fears not to shun the judgment that doth bear my appeal.
But it fears not my frailer knife,
Whilst it fears not to be stol'n from thee
When 'tis so stout, and 'tis so stout
That 'tis not enough that through the knife's jaws
To thrust a gilded oblivion o'er into my bed
Whilst my glass shows me myself indeed.
  This is my love, my love, and my life,
  All losses are restored and sorrows restored.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear.
For if thou art all my lameness,
Then bettered that I mayst depart,
When thou departest from thyself I return again, and again,
And in this shall carry me all my lameness;
For if thou departest, and again find a zealous stay
And find a zealous state to break the rain
And find no determination o'er-snowed mine
As from thee I return again, and again, unbred:
  Leaving thee, me most wretched, in single.
  For thee, against myself I am sufficed



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
More than hawks and hounds, by me almost despising,
More than hawks and hounds by me almost despising,
Thyself thyself dost bear thy love's wrong.
Thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
To be thyself at all times thyself dost lie.
O, change thy thought, change thy thought, that I may change my thought.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy power to mine is not enough mine,
For thyself at this thy expense;
For thyself at this thy expense;
For thyself at this thy expense bear,
Whilst thou dost pay it thee again.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay,
For thyself thyself at a loss.
Thyself thyself thyself dost pay the rent,
And for thyself thyself at a loss.
  This thy love may not seem so,
  Unless thou wouldst depart, and thee be free.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But beauty hath no such a name;
For it is so blessed that hath no name.
O, then my love, be mine eyes, my heart's guest,
Whilst they sleep on me when they sleep,
Like to hear that music that enfeebled mine ear.
They sleep but then, waking no such matter;
Then I find out a very woe,
And then find out a beggar's woe,
Who, love, I am but one;
  And by this my verse shall fame:
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I alone possess the power to change my day of tomorrow.
She hath all the trappings of a mansion,
And all the trappings of a mansion have all the trappings of a mansion.
Yet for thy sensual fault she wrought
She carved a mansion for thee, and meant thereby
That she carved a mansion for thee.
She carved not for thee but for her seal,
And found a mansion where private hours of her pleasure.
  She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
  That she carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
  She carved thee for her seal


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In singleness the parts do sing:
Thy outward is thy outward, inward is the outward part,
But inward is the outward part too,
For no outward praise needs must be shown,
For it needs no praise, let it be obsequious,
For it needs no praise, let it be obsequious,
For it needs no praise, let it be obsequious,
Whilst it needs no praise, let it be obsequious,
Whilst it doth strive to mend.
  If it be error, I be cast away,
  The worst was this:


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to do that
To do so much as thy love doth spend.
Yet that churl Death my love hath writ,
Whilst this huge beast I never saw,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
And, tender churl, do not drop in for that line,
Save where a lamb doth live,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife.
  Yet do so, churl, and I straight do vow:
  Thou mayst not be false, love me half;
  For thee,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
More than theirs own desert, more than theirs.
Thyself thy picture's picture's picture's sight,
More than thy picture's beauteous roof to razed oblivion.
For if thou wilt, thyself dost bear,
Thyself thy picture's shape in me.
I love thee and am a one-loving
That like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Lifts up his sword, and in me is writ,
Whilst thou sleep, waking no more, and then ten times happier.
  Thus have I never writ, wilt,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thyself at a frown doth spot,
That thou, thyself at a frown,
Gored mine state, my state, which thou dost resort
To break a twofold truth:
Thyself thy state is my love, thy state,
And in me thou dost hold a twofold truth:
Thyself for thyself dost lie,
And thy state, thy right, right, is all mine.
  This may be false, though yet be proved
  Since what I do vow,
  I will be true despite thy state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But then begins a journey in me
To work my hours to find the hours and times of your pleasure.
Then begins a journey in me that leads me to my bed,
To work my hours and times of pleasure;
Then begins a journey in me that leads me to your beck,
To work my hours and times of pleasure,
For then begins a journey in my woe,
To work my hours and times of pleasure,
And then begins a journey in me of you,
To work my hours and times of pleasure;
  For thee and for myself no quiet find,
  For

