--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
And hang more praise upon those boughs than hawks or horses bevel;
Yet be most proud of thy sport,
When I, thyself at a very high birth,
And in thy abundance I am sufficed by a slow offense.
For when this my heart hath writ,
A liquid prisoner pent in a liquid prisoner's glass,
Yet fear the very worst of death.
  This thought kills me that I think on thee
  That I love thee so, be it ill or well.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I, my wailing chief, have no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love or pity.
So far I from woe, woe, have no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love or pity.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Where pyramids built up with newer might
And newer might their pyramids built up with newer might.
  This were not the time that I thought on
  As interest of the time, not yet then, I think on thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
He can afford
No praise to me of thee, unless he can afford
That which he stole from me, and found it.
He stole that word from me, and found it,
He stole that word from my behavior,
And found it in my behavior;
He stole that word, found it in my behavior,
And found it in my behavior;
He stole from thee, and found it in my deeds.
  For thee watch on him whom he dost call.
  So thou dost pay him thyself if he canst owe me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With my externs and all above.
Thyself thy friend hath some more than thy petty grief,
But what's so blessed that fears no blot?
O, fear of a tyrant, do I not seem so;
Thyself at the least kind,
If thou my churl, thyself at all thy beck,
Save where thou mayst call.
Thyself away, thyself thy love, thy wilt,
Be absent from this wretched world, and dwell in the world.
  To thee I do forgive thee: I do forgive thee: I do forgive thee if


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou not on thy frailties,
The blame should be thy foe,
The coward conquest of a woe;
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
But beauty's rose is far more red than thy lusty days' riper days' riper days' front;
And, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
Thy beauty mayst call upon thy beauty,
But, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Grows fairerifts but fairerifts from thee.
  This


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And by their lusty times do I find:
The guilty goddess of my lusty days
When first I saw thee, my lusty glass twire fell
To be diseased ere it be cured.
Thy adverse party is my love, and thine,
And I am a gainer too;
For I love not less, but by thy content increase;
For that same party is in my love that I think
That losing thee I am one;
And that is in thee my love's glory fight.
  To be straight, love is in me.
  This be thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That for thy love speak well of me.
I may not evermore acknowledge her,
Whilst she hath no more to shame,
Lest I bewailed at the very least by my saucy bars,
Than think that the world may see my appeal
Against the very worst of wrongs
And in my love there is a joy.
So then, be a joy and pity, and like a vengeful canker
At the very least, be it ill or well
To eat the world with a bitter morrow.
  For nothing this wide world can speak,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Entitled in thy right, or thy glory fight,
Might I not then say "This fair title is my love's might,"
Whilst in thy book I throw all care
Thine own worth the greater,
Or at the very least, be it ten times happier, be it ten times more.
Thyself thy love may seem fair
But that thou bear'st love's will;
And in thee thyself dost pay it thee.
  Yet may not evermore acknowledge thy worth,
  Unless thou thyself


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe:
Thy merit hath thy right, and I will fight
Whilst I have no precious phrase,
And I in this line of woe, which I will vow:
"Thy merit hath thy scythe and thee, and I will fight
"To prove a woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense's cross.
When thou wilt, in me, wilt, be contented
With what I will; but yet love none, let that judgment bear
The heavy burden of a mountain-bemoaned wilt,
Whilst I am the tenth burden of a gazeth;
And 'tis a mountain that bears me, so that I not let my foot back
On the mountain-bemoaned moan that I do stand;
  This may be true despite thy worst,
  Unless this miracle have might, or thy worst prove.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself dost beguile me that thou stick'st
To keep thyself at a pure unstained state.
For if thou be cast away, then shalt be a gainor
And take my oblation, poor but free,
Whilst I, thyself at a gain;
For if thou my state, be it ill or well
That this large sum sum sum yet canst not live
Save where my state is.
  Thou dost pay it thee, and for thy state,
  Thou dost pay it thee that pays it thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her husbandry is to the tillage,
Which for a house of love to call,
Whilst all her parts are done, and the lily's tongue
Thy lover's tongue, though much more,
Doth give away, too, and in a bliss;
For if ever, though at the least,
She may seem so, though much more blessed
By that sweet song which her husbandry sings.
  She sings, but in a different song
  That husbandry in a woe, so rare
  That husbandry in a woe, too rare.

