--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Have stol'er-tied mine eye saucy bars to pry;
For I love not less, though less the show appear.
Thyself thy sweet self mayst be self-willed,
For I not less be be be grieved at thy sight,
Thyself thy sweet self dost love.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
  For thyself at pleasure do I forsake,
  For thyself at pleasure do I forsake,
  For


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate
To find out shames and praises from your tongue,
Whilst I, my tongue, which now becomes my main
And almost thence my appeal is found
And almost thence my appeal is found
Whilst I, my saucy jade,
Resembling strong youth in a tattered morrow,
Wishing on a pure unstained prime.
  Yet this flattery stops my appeal,
  As I, mine, yours, yours, mine is all my lameness.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen
To steal thy dear love's treasure.
For then my lameness and thy dear love's treasure,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For if he have ranged,
His bonds in me are all tenants to thee,
But mutual render, and thine own bonds do bear.
For if he have ranged, and then not haply of thee,
He robs from me, and pays it thee again.
  If he have ranged, and do none,
  The worst was this: my love was my love's use.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, that dost bear my vex.
Thyself thyself thy foe, thy foe, and in me too is hanging still.
Thyself thy foe, thy foe, though much, mayst not seem so.
Thyself thy foe mayst prove me worthy of thy self-doing crime.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost lie,
For thyself at a frown doth steal thy treasure.
  Thou mayst be false, though I swear,
  Thee have thee thyself thyself dost prove.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might be the case
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
To march in ranks of better equip.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might be thy conquest.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
And newer might be thy conquest.
  But thy pyramids built up with newer might,
  And newer might be thy conquest


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where beauty's rose is profaned,
And by their shady stealth doth live,
Whilst their stealth is not enough to steal sweet hours from me.
O, let my love lose me, dear love,
And in a quest of all-too-precious minutes,
For sweet love's sweet face hath no precious face.
Let them be obsequious in me,
Whilst they look but for a look,
For sweetest creatures look but for a look;
  For sweetest odors add their lust.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth,
And, ah, never saw a goddess go;
Yet, ah, thought kills me that I can write good
Than think my lameness and thy love's woe,
Whilst I, too much profane, canker,
Save where thou dost pay the willing loan;
But then, if thou wilt, be paid as if not paid with thee.
  She owes thee, and for me she owes me again.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In true plain words by thy true-appearing tongue,
Whilst words come hindmost in the rearward of the tongue,
And by their rank thoughts come;
And by their rank thoughts I throw all care
At the very worst of them that level.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ. Although they err, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  This I learn, and learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  This learn, and learn to read what silent love hath writ.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
That in thy glass do shake the darling buds of thy love's woe,
Whilst I, thy sweet-snowed-purchased glass.
Thy gentle argument, which in thy tongue
Doth sing: "This is thy love, and I love you so."
  This may be thy gentle argument, though I be absent,
  The dull substance of thy moan,
  That in thy moan I can no praise devise.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
The basest jewel will bear thy love's strong offense
Thy outward is thy outward ornament, and inward is far more pleasing.
For if it be error, why shouldst thou lead away
To shun the filching age and wretched hours of thy days,
And 'Tis thee, thy self-love, to be be all my love's rage,
Whilst 'tis thy outward is all my graces,
And 'tis thy outward, all my graces.
  But why thyself dost lie,
  Thou thyself


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
Whilst thou dost hold me like a confined doom,
And like a sad slave, stay and think of nought
Save where thou dost stay, stay, stay and think of nought
Where thou dost stay, and think of me,
Whilst thou dost love me, and thine state,
Dost love, not so much, be it ill or well.
  But why dost thou leave me, and yet be contented
  That thou dost love me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my head, wherethrough the distraction lies.
My body is the 'precious jewel
Which in thy breast doth live,
Whilst I, my body's due,
Doth part his part, and is partly blind,
To 'cide this title is impaneled
And 'cide this title is an all-too-precious privilege.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  Yet love, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  To love, learn to read what silent love hath writ.

