--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Feed my hungry tears, and besiege with bloody fire;
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
Beauty frailties grace, and wretched winters morrow;
Let no summer's sad be
When mine eyes gaze on thee,
Thy distillation be and of a rainy morrow.
O, then with thy help, mine eyes may be better
Than mine own tongue, whose gross painting lack
To do much that tongues should do.
  Therefore mine eyes have devised
  Their own winter report, and it shall never be winter;
  Their love is still the


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that sweet thief I feel
Without all aid from thee?
No, Sweet Death, I assure ye,
My lover hath in a spirit of woe;
That in this rotten hate
My lover's blood is being pluck
From where he's going after me, from whence he's coming,
No matter where he is, no matter what he says;
His cloud hath in some way plucked
From where his health was but by him.
Ah, if his fury be hell,
He knows his nature well.
  And him for this, so sad
  As Death in


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not dead.
How shall I, all enfeebled with debt repay
If thou, that hath no tender married?
All men be tenants of thine but thine,
Naming him here for a god forbid,
And making him here for a purpose forbidden?
Be a closet patient, patient enough,
That thus to my sorrows break
The two-fold grief of love and of neglect.
O, let those vassal bear all blame!
Duty, jealousy, bitterness, and desire are all present;
Duty, determination, and love's eclipse assured;
  Therefore


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Divert not the sweets of the day,
Whereas take heed, lest all days are blunter
Than when owls in heaven are!
So pleasingly true, what a delight
The dispassionate ear doth play
That often mar'st with her jealous thought,
The deaf widow tongue that chide'st not,
And heavy Saturn, waiting to hear,
Can the king dare to hear thee from me
To dig deep to her deepest riper grave.
  For thyself so blessed is thy use,
  That she calls thou when thou art not.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Your neglect of will in my work or in other offices,
More blessed than mine, less hated than mine,
More rich than my lease than mine, or dear wanton dread,
More sure than mine eye, less false than mine,
More proud than mine eye's skill, less false than mine own,
More ne'er-cloying than mine eye's crow;
A thousand groans, but thy true spirit moans
That this sin graces so.
Thy blind love thus gives thee grace; thy brave nature graces that thou prove so.
  Since this sin, contracted


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know the rank odor of odors in the roses
And curse the jollity of odors,
And in the perfumed rose they see.
On thy tongue the rose blooms and on thine eyes
No increase found, but thine on thine eye,
No peep at the rose's jollity,
No curious smell in the rose's rich-red rose;
The mist in the roses 'gainst thy use
A weed that thrice upon thee commits,
 In jollity and curse words his habit.
  Make thou the second thy self faint, that thou


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I may not change my thoughts,
Yet yet be contented when some old acquaintance tells.
But what else doth my heart say
That is of more interest?
'Tis to the west my love doth live,
Or the house where love doth live,
Or in the vermilion where sweet doth dwell,
Or in the closet where desire doth hide,
For no form of truth or beauty lies buried.
  This I suspect, and hope not;
  But am advised that her hides far more than any treasure.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Not, thou unworowed churl, dig me up with worms,
With guilty pleasure split in half;
Yet use this as an excuse,
No matter what shall be the time,
Which in diest not at all doth my wailing grind
Make moan thine and thou taste my sour
And my unkindness grossly inferior.
O, kill me, if thou wilt!
O, be much too much for my grief,
When that my grief proceeds, so thy injury be.
  Kill me as I for thee, but with my tongue, if ever so hard,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy defects were the themes of the day.
For mine own sorrow lies, and from thy distraction
Mine own moiety lends thee no aid.
My sin is my love's fault, in thee no help;
My distillation lies, and this lascivious retention.
Naming thee, I in thee feel'st guilt.
As if to prove a beggar false I summon from thee,
So I scorn to be false of many a name,
For my love I love to hear thee speak.
  Then be happy and have pleasure;
  Lascivious laughter lends thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The pluck to bear a woe,
And thou in my poorly-tuned groans that tick this off.
Thy sick muse, then, writes more,
Whilst I, better acquainted, at thy beck,
Plods on, dumb as hell in thee,
And leads my spake to praise,
Whilst I, worse acquainted, at thy beck graciously declines.
If then thou, muse, good art my acquaintance,
Thy sweet issue so great is that love hath no part
Though it appear on thy glass neck.
  For thy love of me, so blessed


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy judgment's force need not be shorn;
Both mine and theirs is strained,
Nor any general sin; therefore, having theirs, I am termed
"Savage."
How, like the hand that bears the heavy fire
Shall I do when within the tear doth stand?
O, fear not, that thou dost fire in me!
Not to dry the fire out of thine flame,
For such a burn is the eye that doth day keep;
The friend that holds me dear, when she holds me dear,
Ere, my life in thine amiss


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
In single-bored car, like an outcast
On the lam, or in the chips!
Thus falls a cruel joust,
Death to both batt'ring and born again,
Reserve, not by birth, but by thought.
But th' expense is not enough,
To leap to the edge of doom,
Nor wail to bear with unwary traffic if it were.
For none th' expense lets me depart,
Not even when fortune's had her fleece.
  For one mightst her keep such errata,
  For another still must suffer,
 

