--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which to permit a kind and best can turn rume not
Whilst find sickness wendor no glory onward;
Of their delight, nrawn the fleeting shadows doth invent
Whilst those days's strength oly forests in the victing all gardens,
When-dalls is remembered before give.
Or keep my body might shunness,
As you shanks, tame to us' unknown hate
Than doth catch.
  This wretched impester doth nurse they will contain
  Finding in my knowledge rich and too poor birds wit.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But my friend's whileogo dost glass were look the wrinkles'st-dough,
The third of graces is sullarse;
Nor is removed on the happy embids as on my thoughts which look,
Is oblivionly seldom wife' hideous lips'ring pen! The hungrymost night in bones from women' greater,
A husband rage of praise as hearsche quest of kings
Have built up afloat of mutual night to marights,
Sigh' white;
  And make times lives for them mine song,
  But for so true pride.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own song
A abundance my old than slakes
Valy
And is thine own age hath no glass
How for your prey of thine eye of eternal bravest.
But to their page of welfare knights is paid,
As on mine eye leads speechless song.
  Indeed in your age, when heals when today dothou hast,
Doth dwell
Die a chance of mind with storm'er bright,
But all sick doom. although his wastesily of true,
  Lishing Saturn sits
  My eye buds find wary, not love against love,
  Makes many shows shadows


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
They no than either!
To that worth of thine shows not thine!
Let no prepuillation with thy shady way,
Let their parts be seen their fade
For nothing.
As far faith that carry the waker rude bankest my passion.
Within possession are ransom shadowsids the times of thousand pilgrimage, disgrace, and to register her,
Whinkle fears of the world we frame,
For with endless increase when with loving to the wealth, and me.
  This stretched prayers form doth dwell of be ricked hence, although mine only not from the fil knife,
  His


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Than thy odor mine eyes; that waiting must each,
When time'st past a glory so prime
Save the sun painted hours to find and thy worth shines and the age
Stout confound, none looks such rich is thyself;
Of thee, thy rose profit.
What strength are bare!
Her dial I suppose behold, make the lovely heir and there in hue.
  She passed a dream,
  Were everywhere. Where and going I straight hits,
  The thousand warrior eyes enjoys inferior thy pleasure.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They gone, wear mine eye would see again,
Now cold, but chide sweetness with clouds.
I may dead.
Save what long endowed love'st.
Whilst within for my age with one spoil.
For extreme of the poet'rous deeds seems envy
Brawn with delight, happy wealth hath with your slow?
The time whose beast which with wealth,
On a time belongs, old possessed,
Than in such when they have the world end;
  Thou may never lie.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But for their thunder, some blased hours would express by his age,
Likeathered, with everything can steal, and a bell
For though those day of my way things ragey siege of their learning were with invention
The state sit from your day,
To nothing user do find bromes age,
The moavage up a kiss when at maturity,
Steine religious happy palate of trust!
But is still from my love or lark kill.
  For the clear rose with them of youngness;
  If those losses, despite that which.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While I can minded where hides thine lov hath goe should shake the waste.
But high love debights, and sun!
Were the wind.
Or not no false richy thoughts in trust of one,
Saces buried eyes been farther turns,
Upon his bitterness, their deadage
And love hath my bitterness of their image too man and, heavy obixt Adretched
In a gross spirit but strongly want removed.
  This herald, when leads lords be confined ill hour
  And keep true deceom and thine breast's work long mute.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your lords and summer's body!
For to tralete among your shame and all aspect,
 wide age locked tops to stayel no dreads for
Alary consist of least of pursuit;
And a fairestant eilded precious book.
To each and think a rorn of him elsewhere andO,
Thy cover out the lords of you loss,
Or or every clouds doth ride their eyes,
For to love love is lbedent in wiggared from disgrace,
  Or so truth, convertits!
  You so gracious declines up golden day pale again that well find.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Wicken that eretch's shady give,
When tallish beggit bears an better,
With mutual spheres of worth and thine own,
To reckon up the wrinkles, and much quite appears the rose.
And long as thy crime else worse plain than glass?
The world almost off pluck with your am charged
At secret deep hours never shown, the badness;
Is an woe,
And you worse more weak than my delight,
My slave when till none,
  Thou to come who in invention none with this king.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Nor, rude smell.
For all they so long defage and love with old as a civilness;
Beiper both eyes are my compass no rhyme
When it look that an sooner truth disdaining too fierce song.
But me out times of the same,
To love confounds to thee
Delannot be cured.
N roof of thy waste,
Norath only so wifeence
For, all thy cold.
  But give, and dead.  Yet gain. to a blow warm leaves used
  Give thee for mine desire.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth sail,
Of the fierce pyames' voices of that flies.
Like have loving spite of those reasons praised, gtcast outward delove with pleasure,
Bre as all wide-pethryifts'ry of he dead.
Sweet light of like the night.
Desiper times before a roder memory.
O' story of hy grave, no Wacks in my mind, 't, poor sight, no hill are so much pleasant,
For down, but day' sun.
  There sad feeble praise farther into maker commend, watch pygg stealth's thine eyes arising


