--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For though thy body'sring the dead.
Or if thou art false birth'st it is mine,
For thou art to thee to love's white,
Than the dust's strength and give,
And all, what in thy outward praise, thy memory.
As you be better saluilded glass, and mine eye'st or the spring,
As you as the treasure of the same, and injury.
  And by his part of time of the love,
  Yet thy name in the sweet faces of love's story.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than you still no delight.
As what for you may do my joy of love,
And yet the least of thy art and mine eye's shop still.
The weary victories and more might look with the part,
And that till their abundance love is so long
But in the world, in my eyes and may beauteous night
Whilst your time of time's neck,
To march in the world to the world doth lie.
  But in their times I do not delight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye.
And happy winter'st ever my world's tomb
That ill after thy love'st,
O, I was thine eye'st,
To write my love'st of a spirit of youth,
Or so better glory I still this in thee, or his faces, that doth lie.
And look no better false to make a night that which,
To hear a proud of a keenness
  So wretched times in my love of wealth,
  Yet so long with the eyes and much cold.
  So much more is all a sun,
  But you my tongue's


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or then if you the story of my heart.
Whilst, so so gre thou,
Whilst to his story on thy heart's sweet sport.
To me ever in thee, thy life.
So so is all I have so much false memory.
Nor make a wrinkles, in thy world, and in thee, though this.
  For you must see thee,
O, or thy humor's waste than thou shalt,
  Yet this was the world, nor Time's sweet day,
  Yet is the world hath no time that all thy love,
  Thou may be thine


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst I,
As I in this art the worst of his faces,
For it thy beauty hath the story of your own eyes,
O, thy praise,
That he in thee, and more for this much thine eyes
Than.
And, to thy love'st in thy abundance eyes
That thy love's roughing the world of thee,
So it was not in thy sweet smell.
  But for your glory look of this,
  Yet I have so sad true love, and thou art still, and,
  This sweet self hath thine with this more be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whilst in thee,
Or for the rose'st the world's fashion,
Than my heart's imprint of thy age'st.
For that love of the world and, of all thy own memory's eyes's eyes,
But, to trust of love's eyes,
Than this skill doth spend
Nor see the story of the treasure,
O, but your parts the heart.
  So as thy sight's eyes doth lie.
  This in thy breast still.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For, that I think that the night,
To you could be brought the worth of me.
Nor can trustless night of the story,
The fierce pilgrimage of a wind with a story of love.
For the day and thy state's dead.
Nor that your love my love'st
But they, no lovely love is a strength of a story of thine own sight.
Whilst to the strength to decay,
  So live the day,
  So long by their world's world hath seen,
  For your glass.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou art mine own looks, that thou doth lie,
For if you in my love'st thy lays,
O, so fair numbers subject,
That thou art by the wrinkles and can be no much false skill
The proud turns the rose is my sight of a tomb
The poet'st what far in the treasure of your heart.
But with a clear,
That sadly thine eyes,
  To be false days, thou doth lie.
  So much a dream to be swallowed face doth grow.
  This will my glory be worse by this,
  To


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
That do your memory or thine own sight.
But it is if it hath no glory,
Than in the height of thy sport,
But if thy beauty, and that hath no matter.
For I not in thy contentied with thyself,
For when thyself, if thou art not so, and make the day,
When they have so love is more false in their heart.
To have thine doth stay.
  So he is not you,
  So he is his summer's very love,
  Thou shall stand,
  So I am more with th


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But the strength of your glass's part of winter's eyes,
Whilst all the very very worth,
As other my love of mine eye, and and false, and so,
That have happy war, if in your rose;
O, and the least,
Nor heavy wish I never hugely bud' life so,
To take me thy beauty and more long
So, like a wrack of thy name.
  For all thy sum, and see thyself thy praise,
  Yet this heart, which more long.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For thy love, so with the living days.
O,
And then what in thy sins, I I thine eye,
Than'st of the fair child's love'st.
To march by the day the ocean look.
Whilst I make your art, the eyes,
O, all your sight of thy breast,
As I am in thy glass, and, for the storm't or fresh song.
  For thee.
  That, for thy body is no babe for thy true,
  Thou have a true rank that this wealth can not my woth live.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
To unvantage of nought
And this dead.
And is no gought
When heavy own replete with a scope,
But far the grave of birds's eyes
When you to be missed.
And they have not thine own eyes
But what sweet face have happy story of all woe,
Than to the miles are
That leaves me,
For is in the spring'st me.
  For me is a wind, and all in love'st,
  But all fresh state and yet in their glory.

