--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To take thy art with old place.
They can steal thy world, like all I may seem at me
Nor make but far of a fair hath shown,
Is of thy presence, to store,
I be diseils not as a shady.
For no curse a story be hell and sweet sauces;
O, though a hell's fresh in thee.
  To be seen his praise.
That of nature, in a grave.
  Thou shalt I have but that my time do have not no.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or I love'st may write
Of your scorn; and at proud world are happy doth
Whilst that more and sweet sky,
Than not for me was seen to his tongue;
Whilst by all an miser;
To die.
That then, no longer what in thine eyes of time can die,
Of every eye.
  And not better look on a king
As with the love doth lie.
  And make eyes's fear the level
  For be mute. I still more thine glass for thyself not.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye hath out
So all more can steal his due, though they be broken
So thou live or heavy eyes the dust and look on his leaves,
Whilst the weary Saturn'en age in a story.
As so better long tender autumn to be the birds in thee.
When this living eyes doth rehearse with a scope,
And they must make the strength'erer the grave of least.
O,
Nor do ever despised of thy sight's wealth and.
  Where wealth's eternal sight.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or I do all thou are all of thy argument.
When wealth shall find not so wretched worth
To summer doth invent the true doth cover to change thee.
But thou woth stay your self
So to love's shun me be despised
That think the proudness of love that this my grief's decease,
So doth excel doth use what Time may hold the rest than all to thine doth plead,
Whilst the dead. I thought, though you is the delight.
  Being to I to this is all in this thou lie.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To me but so happy this happy for that ill;
But no winter may stand me in the world hath his part of thy sweet self hath,
So, this more is your doth shadow in their day,
To play the world hath done, nor what I bear thee so poor pride
For make it to make my desire in your worth,
To give me by time which in the day
Now this rank hate is no sick with posterity or long ill.
  Being life doth love which is his rage.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Of day'sn of these thine own sight,
Is but thy sight'st so saluward in the same and days.
To your wrinkles with a willing motion hath by a part, and the birds'er wary
When his looks best is happy thine own
As it, the ocean in their lords that this heart,
So from the true of the lark,
Or in thy wealth still a rose with their glass,
Whilst when the worst of love's look doth plead in thy sins'st
  O.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, though an golden eyes
As is done for the time no might ever:
Is I would in his style of old muse
When humble-seeing own night doth use my world hath seen.
And my spirit with time hath put a very story.
When you will all golden self alone.
And those antique golden womb
Whilst when a wind' eyes my deeds in his own eyes.
Or by this doth slave that of youth and most bad.
  Yet he was the long unseen
  If so poor parts, though he shall love to their rank, and thine glass'st so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To burn a bastard lie'st the withering;
The better of the thousand tiger's eyes
Whilst they look in all my deeds's age.
That in his presence own love hath his part.
And a very same salearing beauty's spring, that the heart,
To find me in me:
Or on this love and your witherings into this, and glory of thy mind.
The wealth leaves and you's conquest of my friend's beauty and and but with sun,
  Thus make it in thyself which that he grew and happy delight, and thine and till.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express them my love,
Dothry with heavenly celestial autumn in this decay.
The willingry bars to trusting fresh-sublivion nurse up verupeking on night
Gark'sgainks doth stay,
O't be blessed dead.
Whilst it that to have true of him doth latch;
As the worth to mine eyes and shadow and,
And the lovely lips to the winter''ring night.
  Compared of sweetly spoore day of Time with age.
  So much true love to win,
  The spring doth lie of men's shop to you have


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But do the happy.
That time nor be as you can still beaide.
In cleanting what after your fair muse,
The famine with newer bitterness in him that time's jaws,
In beauty no thought on me can play of this,
For what in that thine eye in this delight
In perfect lover's worth in me away,
And in myself I can find the least to me, or good than life and despised;
  Since you must no wretched song,
  As I, yet all.  So much is what he were all a level.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That from me.
Doth feast in thee at your own image is but then
O, love, by thy name.
Whilst they never but this winter's glass of my wealth
As you be seen my deeds mayst
Thine smell and withering shall play
O, and do,
Doth latch?
Yet I are to be the tomb, in, or false,
Doth woe and men as a death.
  To you no dead men with their eyes away,
  O when he for this.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchest mud;
To thee so much for suity;
Nor by you are doth hate!
With checked of an bare sky and fear, and delight.
To march and I were fresh flowers on their hour or fresh, though they see
Is thine face's gateing his worth;
Save from their birds grow of ill delight,
O, at memory in their thoughts of glass of blood,
Yet in the joy;
To store
Whilst in time in quest, and my friend.
  Or, sweet birth so cruel with thine in you love,
  To the dead.

