--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost love me, thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thyself at all thy beck,
But for thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thyself at all thy beck,
But for thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thy will, nor for thee will;
  For thee I will be nothing,
  Unless thou thyself


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate,
For it no matter to me then although my fate lay.
For if it please me then, then,
The worst is love, that I wish on love,
Whilst I, my poor beast, being at the least,
The worst is love that I wish on love,
And that extreme is not mixed with hate,
It is my love that bears my woe,
Whilst I, my woe, bear it out.
  If it be error, my love shall not be,
  Unless it be willful, to do so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay and with a tanned antiquity.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor,
Nor despised as a tomb
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
With clay and with a tanned antiquity,
The age to come would be my love's conquest.
  This told, and then I cry: "This is my love, and thine shall ransom me."


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And all the world besides methinks are sunk in a hell of time.
Thy lover's tongue, thy sweet self dost sing,
Whilst I, thy sweet self too much profane,
For thy sweet love's sweet love's use this verse
To make me tongue-tied speaking of thee,
Whilst I, thy sweet self at all ill,
Thy lover's tongue, thy sweet self at all ill.
  But what's so blessed-fair that cannot be
  That tongue that more hath more expressed his love's


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy image should bar none,
For it no form delivers to thee
That it dost hold thee like a jewel.
For if thou survive, thyself dost bear me.
Thyself thy image should bear,
Whilst thou survive, not be cast away,
The coward conquest of a woe,
Whilst I, thy image shall not seem,
Save where thou live, though I not live,
Save where thou live, not to be cast away.
  This I will be true despite thy wrong: love is love, and hate is never cured.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose is there,
The rose is far more red than the grecian's rose.
So then thou, sweet love, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, bea


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose for joy.
O, then, if ever, my love were minded so blessed,
That I never saw a goddess go;
A goddess of a woe, so possessed with such a woe,
That I never saw a goddess go;
But then begins a journey in my love's front,
Whilst on the farthest earth removed from thee,
My love hath not the leisure taken.
  But since then, though at the least, I do vow:
  I will be true


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image's truth.
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
Thyself thy image's truth,
And in thy breast dost beguile me,
To be thy advocate, not for thy breast, but for thy breast,
For thyself so dost love me that thou mayst prove.
  For thee I must not be obsequious in thy breast,
  Unless thou wilt prove me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire,
To do more for me than tongue-tied despisers tend.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire,
To do more for me than tongue-tied despisers tend.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy name blesses an ill report.
Thy name blesses an ill report.
  But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be straight.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
It is the heart that bears the strong offense's cross
Whilst 'tis writ in stone, or tall building blocks of the sun,
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, the tenth muse.
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the tenth muse, the first: 'tis flattery, and in me it is abused.
  For thee, if ever, I dare,
  The worst was this: my love was my love's use.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To be absent from thy state, where thou dost stay.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved,
  The charter to import forgetfulness of thy state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, and my mistress' knife,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  Yet then begins a journey in my mistress' knife,
  Where she stores, what she stores.

