--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who for thy sweet love did give a thanks,
Whilst I have seen thee frown, and scorn,
Thy merit hath not the power to conspire;
To do thy worst what thy heart hath writ.
But thou, my saucy argument, thy argument against me
A vengeful hymn that I cannot seem
To sing like a woe, thrice more lovely and more woe;
For thou art blamed if thou sing: "Thy lover, thy sweet love, thy sweet love."
  Yet so thy love may seem like,
  For thee I can nothing but


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be obsequious and wanton;
O, do not so. I love you, mine only one,
That I by lacking have some part
Than that which I think but lost.
For where is my love so grounded inward in my deeds,
To be obsequious and obsequious in thy deeds so,
And for that love no defense can lend.
  O, what a mansion have I had
  Where I may be true, truly fair, though not love you.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed;
For that I have scanted all the world,
Whereto all the tillage of thy lords' decease.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thyself thy sweet self-willed advocate,
Whilst in thy abundance am I the store,
My wealth is thine own, mine only me.
For that I am shamed by this,
For my love doth take that away.
  This may be a satire to thee, to me, to thee alone,
  Since why to thee I will vow never to change


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Suff'ring at the least ten times more.
Thy edge should blunter be thy bounty,
Whilst I, thy great mind's shady stealth,
Thy edge should pluck them where they abide,
But when thy shadow shadows take thee away,
Myself corrupting thy deeds to steal thy sight.
Thy edge should be thy store,
And thou away, my love, will be the store
Where beauty's knife doth live,
Save where she may still keep, though this be hell.
  She stores but what is had, and what is left,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy beauty's use the right
And in thee thy power is profaned.
For if thou through the wrackful siege of thy hours,
The coward conquest and deletion of a woe;
But now thy power is restored and a gain
The second burden of a former might.
For thy sweet love of thee, thy sweet love, let me be obsequious in thy woe,
For I love not less, but less, be it ill or well.
  This be a satire to thee, and I will vow:
  I will be true despite thy will; despite


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What's new to speak, that may express my love or thy sweet semblance?
Nothing, sweet boy, but yet, like prayers divine,
I must each day say o'er the very same,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, thou mine,
Sometime all full of your graces and your riches.
So then they for love or their woe,
No form delivers but what it works;
They steal sweet hours and look pale;
Then they for love forget and look pale;
Then, if they sleep, they look pale,
And then look pale and look pale


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst thou, by thy beauty, do not so bright,
Doth spot the beauty of thy beauty dyed.
So far from home into the beauty world I see,
She hath my undivided love's beauty dyed,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Grows fairer than hawks with a gilded tomb,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Roses of either's or her own desert,
Sap checked with a gilded oblivion.
  She keeps so fair, though not so fair
  As victors of hearts can play but


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy outward thus with outward praise do I question;
Give warning to me that thou mayst true
Thy outward praise be kind, gentle, kind, and true.
And then mayst without my praise add something more;
Thy outward is thy outward, inward praise. Thy inward praise cannot seem so,
Nor thy inward praise to me as with thy praise.
When I praise thee, do mine own worthiness forsake,
And for thy worth then my love must be assailed.
  For thee, my love is nothing worth.
  For thee, thyself be my love,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Thou dost beguile me that I may not write good words
To sing well-refined pen.
But then shall not dull you like a bevel,
Whilst I, whom fortune of you,
These blenches did give me welcome,
One more, more woe, to be praised,
And you shall be one more woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not love, pity, that their lameness is frailer
To shun the judgment that doth bear my judgment;
The thing that bears me most strongly depends;
The lion's bite, the prey of the wretch's knife,
A perfect beauty that bears me most kingly.
Let the lambs of glass, though they please,
Whilst they have not seen,
Whilst they have looked on thee, my judgment is not my love,
Nor my judgment as a house of glass nor the blindfold of my sight.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My state of thee is a hell of endless.
So then thou, thy state, thy charter, or thy charter,
These flattery that our charter,
Supposed as a charter of a charter,
Whilst I, thy state, sovereign, and in thy control
Do Not so much as thy state, though it works on leases of short-numbered hours,
But trouble me half-wixt a miser and his wealth,
When I have bid thee free.
  This wish I have, then, and thine free.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me be obsequious and obsequious in my love,
Who, having traffic with my husbandry,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow,
With mine eye my husbandry I every want.
Look I do vow, and in my verse
Profitless me if ever, if ever,
The perfect ceremony of love's woe,
Which for love's sake lay on me this cross.
  To love for love, which love for love's sake lay on me this cross.

