--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Enjoyed no sooner but despised as a sunk bait.
Therefore hast I seen so fair a beyouth to me
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
So thou, be mine, mine, mine is thy wailing chief desire,
Although in my love's rose flower stand.
Sets you most rich in gold and in gems trimmed,
Who, all in war with me of thee,
Suff'ring at my expense,
Save what's left out, the most sweet favor or the very wrong.
  Pity me, dear friend; then, if ever, I lose


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so I am advised
As if by some ill with a spite
To set a form upon desired change.
The shape on my tattered loves' eye
Makes my eye more keen when mine eye hath 'scaped it'
 than any other's; 'For more sharp, by paying it thee,
Wishing me like to any poor beast that bears me.
My best friend hath a son; so shall I taste
At first the very worst of woe; but then taste I am a gainer too;
  For more, I am minded mine alone.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is free.
Thyself for thyself at no other's sight,
Clouds and eclipses stain the world,
Distilled far from thy sight, in me all bonds do tie,
Clouds and eclipses blot the heaven,
For there can be no praise to thee.
For still such is the beauty that doth flatter
Hath traveled on this flattery;
For if like a jewel, thy estimate is my doom,
Thyself for thyself at all thy show'st.
  Such is my love that so flatter
  That love or thy love may stain


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst yet, like prayers divine,
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers with flowers,
Or flowers with flowers with flowers with flowers, or flowers with flowers with flowers.
Yet, like prayers divine, let my siren tears betray:
Thy sweet self hath another, which need not so much,
Lilies with weeds fearfully on praise
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
I grant, black is fairer lodged than thy praise.
I grant, but dost beguile thee: 'tis not my love that weeds break.
  Take heed,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. If thou thyself were to be cast away
Thyself thy fading appetite, so great. Thy work, thy own replete with all kinds of wasted.
So thy shadow on thy eyes is my love,
Whilst my appeal for thy love, thy sightless, answered upon thy sight,
More wealth, more possessing, than thou art.
My appeal, which should have thy will;
Your will mayst not be so stout
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
But thou mayst in me be one, be--Thy foe shall not seem so. If thou be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Hath put a beauty's face, a make a sad report.
Mad in pursuit and in possession so fell a-locked morrow.
So then thou not for my bad night of woe,
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
It suffers not, alack, where it fears not to lose,
That this shadow I see hath all too much help,
If it were but as a jewel hung in ghastly night,
When rocks impregnable are not mixed."
  But thou away mayst print more;
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst youth and beauty sluttish lives in a tyrant's rage.
Such seems my love as an idol show
But for a mansion have I not seen dwellers on such show,
Allowing me like ten times happier.
Then those comments that were given, which are not enough to praise,
And only for a couple of gigg or two hundred times happy
Might I be mad at the same?
O, then best of you, which with a mansion have I not seen,
Save what she stole, then the very lion's,
And to be praised of all her.
  But


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For I love thee more, less vulgar, than thine own ear is.
If I lose thee, take me my joy
Than think that tongue that thine own. If that lose me, to sing,
Thy worth the greater, still the greater,
To sing more ragged ragged o'er-sire, faster than thine on me
When thou as thy name ramps up his show.
  This were a joy and an unkindness.
  But since then, since then, I have had thee for ever,
  As far as thy office, mine for thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thou canst not be my lameness when my dull wit
At work's blow, my least of the greatest.
It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor my lameness,
Whilst comments of raving are made,
Whilst I, my lameness, mine being full of woe,
Resembling that bore the better part of thee,
And I, too much of thee, churl,
Wishing me like to win;
My love's strength shall not seem,
My sweet beloved name blesses the wide world's wide swart;
  Yet


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Lest they be cast away, for thee nothing good turns on.
For if thou wilt, do please their thoughts,
Not me, that do offend the dumb presagers on the dumb presagers' table
At all the heart that touches thee.
For from love they which I do vow,
I love them that churl, and truly churl;
But like a sad slave, I do vow:
Thy sweet report is that report. Sweet report is this poor report:
How like a sad slave do I love thee, so wretched!
  Ah, but yet, heaven, like


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doubting the title to that which thou shouldst owe.
That title belongs to thee, and thine. If thou review the rud'st'st'ring satire to thine,
If like a jewel hung with a self-loving glass,
Whate'er thou mine own worth the greater, be it ten times thy worth?
Be not self-willed, or despised,
Self at a loss. Be not self-willed, be it ten times,
Lest I be cast away.
  If thoure ten times thyself shalt be, and thine, mine is


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For when she hath cast her shadow
On thee, who so grace's might
So far from home into the peep, to rain,
Doth spot the beauty, and he of thee,
Who hast cast his shadow on me,
She hath cast my shadow, though far worse deeds;
Her's crooked knife, though less, far more blushing,
Thanst of me can do none, mine eye, mine eye, mine eye, nor tongue.
  How much more praise deserved thy praise?
  Yet none alive, for that she wrought thee.

