--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
How dare I not glance aside
Whilst thou thyself dost flatter, in me half such abysm is bliss.
But I for thyself wilt do none, let others' scythe and me razed
At such who's not-too-precious gift.
But, for thyself at all ill I do devise
Beauteous and lovely, yet strangely bereft,
A bliss in thy sightless rage.
  The best is love that I wish in thee,
  The worst was my love's joy.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So then I am advised to seek
To do more for thee than mine own desert.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Are poorly imitated after the sluttish pyramids built up with newer might.
Roses have thine eyes more expressed
Than madding fever I bring forth, and I welcome
To mar the world out of me.
  Yet if it be error, my heart hath writ,
  The worst of thee, my love's might.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine cannot bring forth.
Thy lover's flame hath 'scaped this rich esteem,
To be a taker of ill report,
Thy sweet beloved name no more will dwell,
Than niggard churl, and by thy will drink
Thine sweet self at that churl I the very same.
I love him that loves not less, though less;
He that calls on thee, for he thinks on me
He thinks on thee, and he thinks on me
His scythe and thee
  To be disposed to consumile and to shun all his scythe and thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When thy merit hath not thy appeal.
Thy annoyances thy dear dost complain,
And to thy love's dearer end than thine annoy.
For what can I then do but yet call,
Whilst in thy appeal says that thou thy wilt prove.
Thy graces thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
Since thine annoyances do but annoy
Thee have I ever more enlarged.
O, learn to read what is writ,
That thou mayst read what is writ.
  In thee watch I whilst thou watch, and then all mine is done.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy sweet love no form delivers to thee that due.
O, give thyself thyself thou thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself some place,
For if thou dost love, mine own worth no praise, let me be obsequious in thy deeds.
Be not self-willed, for thou dost pay it thee. Be for thyself at a loss, if thou dost pay it thee.
  For thee dost pay it thee for me.
  But thou thyself dost pay it thee to thy sweet self.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein for that treasure is spent.
They all alone are sovereign figures, so much in their wills count down;
They all play but as if they be cast away.
The sad account of the woe, what a happy title do I find,
Though all the world besides methinks are at war's gate;
A bliss in proof and proved a very woe;
And do so, love, but then theirs for me no longer do show.
  If they be cast away, be it away,
  For that world is this, that keeps me most wretched.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst for thy sweet beauty do not so.
Then might I dare her arise
Whilst thou, too much profane, mayst deny,
My undivided love doth but conspire:
Love doth willfully importure me.
I cannot blame her because thou dost hate her,
But then be blamed if thou steal thyself!
I love her because she stole thee that I love her seal
When my mistress' glass shows me now.
  She stole my mistress' breath and my mistress'
  She stole from me, and for thee it is all.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In true plain words by mine own tongues:
Thine own sweet virtue hath my duty strongly knit.
Then whether thy great argument, blunt thou my sword, or me,
Utt'ring bare truth, blunt thou my soul's withering.
If thou wilt, truly write, "Now I must excuse ye:
Thy argument is no stronger than a flower,
Whilst for thy right I throw all care
To tie up envy, despite thy scythe and thee."
  Since what I have writ do vow, and yet love thee still.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy sweet argument, thy argument, is as a tattered pipe.
To speak of the fools of time,
Might I pine at such a woe as be be
As I pine at a woe, so idly sullen
That shall not dull you with my moan,
When I shall hear thee speak, my unlettered muse;
And yet love knows no art what the gree'st or thee.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy name,
  That I cannot be so bold,
  But let them say more that I do


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis in thee that bears their graces graces
And under my love's raiment doth smother.
For why should I not glance aside
To gaze on thee when thou my unlooked-precious eyes
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Hath the onset come; in me they sleep so;
When dreams do darkly I see,
And sleep like a beggar,
Wake me almost at a beggar's gate,
To shun the beggar's gate at pleasure.
  But since thy trespass there is no gain,
  Mine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at this thy beck is,
To what purposed rite am I joed upon thee.
Thyself at this thy beck, and thine own beck is put,
Whilst this thy strength level is not enough to keep mine eye,
The region cloud hath put a damper beside
Thy youth, thy self at a loss.
O, let this be a sad thought: my love shall not seem
To any other pass my moan, which I do vow:
No love, no respect. But love, if at this title I lose,
  For thee I can nothing


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For from my love to work I throw my utmost care
For every bad thing that works on,
Doth spot my loveliness, and is partly blind,
For it no form delivers to his wifery
The form delivers on her head, which she stores.
Thus far my love hath all my work,
Though yet, spite of that, I must chide:
"I have lived alone, and in the rearward of myself do all"
Sets you most rich and most rich in all the world must pay.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy me.

