--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I myself be absent from thee
Than those that have painted new.
So then the lark at me that did painting need
My old acquaintance, thy good report,
To tie up envy and even me with the world is all too short.
Thus far the world is shelled,
Whilst I am all hush, and gav'st I see.
She pricked thee out for me,
And meant thereby:
"So much more is beauty's successive heir,
So far from a satire set on her."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
How much more powerful were in my love than mine eye's be taken
As if by some instinct the blindfolded queen of my sightless view
Is second nature, prouder than my breast,
Whilst I have all other petty griefs
Mine own deep infection with spites and by heavy sleep
I see men's eyes blood warm and blood' stain
Than the lark at the very worst of my griefs.
  Yet men whose sin of thee do not seem,
  Yet men's eyes and women's eyes their sins graced.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear.
For if thou suborned to this suborned might,
I must ransom thy worth, my dear love.
If thou suborned rite of thee, be not assailed, be mine, be be mine, be it not assailed
By my jealous thought, be it not for thy jealousy, be it not for thyself at all ill or well.
For why should others be so wary
Whilst I am shamed and am cast away;
  To be absent from thee and no quiet find,
  Till find thee with me when I am gone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Pluck me from thee and o'erward me to go about
Than think my bewailed guilt should pluck me out of my shames and wretched deeds.
My appeal for thee dost beguile me,
A quest of endless rage, and no determination,
After a thousand victories once foiled,
By thine ten times more than mine, than mine own desert.
Give me thy love, and thine ten times more!
O, what a happy title do I find!
  Be absent from thy walks and in me thou wilt prove
  For nothing that d


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou my shadow is my heaven's due,
My shadow shadows so suited, thy own true-appearing face.
Thy own shadow's true-appearing sight would bar thy sight,
My shadow hath no form but thine own sun,
My shadow shadows like the perfumes of thy sun,
Whilst he upon thy sightless deep doth ride,
Like to thy picture's length.
I love thee and am a taker;
My shames and praises must not be,
Though thou draw my love's length.
  This thy outward form is thy love, so


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Who hast by their outcast orient when they have seen
Beauty hath by their outcast state strumpeted;
Yet beauty's rose rose, which heavily from their lusty days,
Lean on their lusty gusts and lusty morks,
Whilst all their beauties, though their cruel knife, are vanished,
Beauty's knife, by their own self-love,
Suff'ring at the knife's sight,
Delicious knife, by their wills;
  But, so art they, and they, like so poor, are,
  That all their beauties


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, love, mine own saucy sweetness weakens her own veins,
Whilst I, thy sweet self-loving love's grace is not so strong.
I must not be obsequious in thy breast,
Whilst I not for myself at all rank but for thee,
My mistress' tongue, though not acquainted,
With what she loves but doth love;
The lark at first I the very same,
Ere it not that her lays painted new.
  For thee watch I whilst her lays do show.
  She lays but one, but two,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be where my lameness lies,
When I writ my lameness is best.
Yet be from thy lameness all this, be it not said
That I am tongue-tied and that of you.
Then be churl, mine, mine, mine, be dost love
And in my tongue dost give another that respect.
Now be shamed by that tongue that enfeebled mine
Whilst I consider myself tongue-tied, and yet to love
I am tongue-tied by that tongue, and that tongue, quite contrary.
  This tongue that mine eye may not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst comments on thy dumbness, like prayers divine, are mute.
Against thy withering discontent I bring forth
Utt'ring bare muses and idle hours my love's front,
Whilst comments on thy wilt do mock my lameness and my frailties.
Such is my love that in thy withering discontent
As I slapeted to the edge of doom,
Whilst comments on thee tendered o'er-snowed withering,
Sending on thee but with a frown do mock my woe,
And I do vow, never


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis his that flies in the belly where they abide;
For if they sleep, and then they be free.
The sad augurs mock their own presents;
Thee have I not seen sweets and beauties where they abide;
But 'tis the first: 'tis flattery, and in me it is rotten,
And 'tis all my graces that accumulate;
On the morrow, which is this:
'tis flattery, and in me it is cast.
  But why is gilded and what is so fair,
  Sland'ring at the very worst


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which brings all my worst to worst;
When for thyself at a frown so idly;
That's for thy state, being charged with me.
In so profound abysm thou dost hold me;
Thy state, which is so strong,
A tyrant, yet dispraise not with a groan
To tie up envy and obsequious state.
Thy state is this, which thou dost bear,
O, therefore dost I bear:
  Take heed, dear heart, of this large privilege; and do it wrong.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet, as a zealous wife, pry,
Dost thou too much enrich her
Than dost beguile me, not to be mine,
More than that churl which in thy breast dost beguile.
Than think I have any thy will,
But when her husbandry took thee my leave
The mountain or the gazeth; my verse, so barren
That I not saw a better spirit
Than I never saw a goddess face.
  But yet were some mother; I find thee, and for thy sake keep
  Mine own griefs and

