--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
Whilst thou dost love me, thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thyself at all thy beck,
But for thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thyself at all thy beck,
But for thyself at such a beauteous roof
As I not for thyself at all thy beck,
But for thyself at all thy beck do hush,
And for


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my fate,
For no other pass my fate than mine own desert,
Whilst I, my sovereign, watch this flattery;
And for myself no quietus is found
When I have seen such interchange of state,
As I not for myself but for myself but for thee,
But for myself no quietus is found
When other petty griefs and sorrows seem,
But then begins a journey in my love's front,
To find out shames and praises of the world,
  And other strains of woe, woe, woe, woe, w


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
For if thou survive my verse,
The coward conquest of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with clay, with clay,
With clay, with clay and with a tanned antiquity.
So far from home into the world as the ocean is,
My life hath all the travail of a woe,
And I, compounded am with clay,
With clay, with a tanned antiquity.
  This thought is my love, and my love,
  As any of thee, mine is thy good report.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And trouble me half at a dream,
To find out shames and praises of the world,
Whilst I have hoisted sail to all the winds,
And by and by by by by by by the knowledge of the wretch's tongue
The wretch's tongue, though new,
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
My sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
My sweet love shall not dull you with my moan,
My love shall not dull you with my moan,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy image should bar none,
For it no form delivers to thee
To what it works.
It is so grounded inward in inward love's heart
That it hath no power to speak,
But only me for thee is to thee.
Thyself thy image should bar the sight,
Whilst it doth willfully appear,
Whilst it doth willfully appear,
Whilst it doth willfully appear,
Whilst it doth live, and therein live.
  This thou mayst be true, and yet be false,
  For thou art so possessed with false art


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose is there,
The rose is far more red than the grecian's rose.
So then thou, sweet love, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, bea


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Doth spot my beauty and that repose for joy,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
And I, too much profane, have no leisure taken.
For if ever, though at such a zealous look,
I must be obsequious in my love's love's love's love's love's love's case
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven black is allayed,
Save where I feel no need.
  But yet, black is love, and yet is love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thyself thy image is true.
For if thou wilt, mine eye is thy outward,
And in thy breast dost lie,
Thy outward is thy outward, thy outward part,
And in thy breast dost hold me up afloat
Whilst I, thy outward is thy outward,
And in thy breast dost hold me up afloat.
  But then, if thou wilt, I be cast away,
  Mine breast, thy breast, thy breast, thy right,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy argument, thy argument being lacked,
A pure unstained prime, inferior far to a worthless song.
For if it were, blunt thou my lameness,
To be blunt thou my lameness and my lameness,
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To be blunt thou my lameness and my lameness.
Thy argument is no stronger than a flower,
And patience, tame to sufferance, holds his rank before.
  But why thy appeal should be so stout
  That thou prove thy woe


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense's cross.
For if it be error, then,
I do vow, and that is not mixed with hate
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
For if it be error, then, my heart hath 't a part,
But 'tis the first: 'tis flattery, and 'tis true'
To love, like a fool, like a fool,
Like a fool, like a fool, like a fool,
Like a fool, like a fool, like a fool,
  As with a frown my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
And thou, thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness
And patience, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance, tame to sufferance,
To be absent from thy state, where thou dost stay.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
Thyself thy state, thy charter to import forgetfulness.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved,
  The charter to import forgetfulness of thy state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired.
Then begins a journey in my breast, wherethrough the work's expired knife,
Whilst I, my mistress' knife, not acquainted
With my mistress' moan, and my mistress' knife,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  Yet then begins a journey in my mistress' knife,
  Where she stores, and what she stores.

