--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou away, my appeal says I love thee more.
Thy merit hath thy appeal, and thy merit more.
Thy appeal says I never saw a need
A vengeful plea for love's scythe and obsequious tear
Whilst thou, thyself dost bear all my appeal.
Thy appeal says I never saw a need
To march in ranks of good equipage.
So thou, thyself dost beguile me
To march in ranks of good equipage.
  But if thyself dost beguile me,
  The worst was


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
Whilst I, too excellent, do strive
To prove a motley of ill equipage,
Whilst my heart hath 'scaped this alchemy,
Seeking a pure unstained prime
Whilst this huge task now my greatest wish,
And to shun the world with my lameness do contend
As I am now all the more, more blessed and more blessed
By new unfolding my love's story.
  Yet this flattery stops my love,
  Since then my love hath allayed and no end.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
For if thou thyself art blamed,
For thou thyself art so possessed with murd'rous hate,
It is so grounded inward in my heart
That no form delivers thee to my deeds to pry,
But mutual render, which is not mixed with sighs and hounds
Thyself dost beguile me.
So then thou, thyself dost beguile me
To be obsequious in thy heart.
  This thy appeal against myself shall prove:
  The constancy and virtue of thy love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than unswept stone besmeared with sluttish time.
Mine eye well knows what the world needs.
Mine eye well knows what the world needs.
Mine eye well knows what the world needs.
Mine eye well knows what the world needs.
Thyself dost beguile me thus:
"I must be obsequious in thy heart."
The very thought that guides me through the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
When I am not thought on thy sight, but on thy sightless eyes I see."
  Yet this my love may not seem so


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy shadow is but the fuel
Which needs no fuel to race.
The lark at that which the car is
When it needs no fuel to run,
Whereto all the world, that I call.
But, if it be error, and upon me proved,
My appeal for thee dost beguile,
To find out shames and praises of thy true-telling friend.
  This flattery I think upon thy sight:
  The world needs no praise, despite thy deeds.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet methinks I have eyes
Thyself thy beauty's shady stealth,
For stealth thou dost in me be be scorned,
For to be sure that no form delivers me to thee.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst in thy breast dost hold me but a confined stay,
And, like a vassal bound to bear all my content.
  If they sleep, my breast hath writ,
  The worst of love's might,
  The worst of all thy love's might.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst thou, my most high deserts,
Doth spot my appeal, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Whilst that is not enough that to sell;
For if thou wilt, like a jewel,
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes lascivious comments on my appeal
Whilst comments on my appeal do hush the morrow,
And by and by by she walks with me,
Suff'ring at the very worst of all.
  She walks with me alone,
  As if by some instinct I know not.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye is my argument,
My verse in thee is all my argument,
My argument all tenants to the very same,
And I for thee are all tenants to the very same.
For thee my argument is but a confined stay
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
My most true-appearing lameness is allayed.
For thee I am all one, and therefore mayst prove
My appeal is to thee, and for thee no quiet find.
  If thee, my love, thou mayst prove me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy wilt, thy dear wilt, be much more temperate
 than thy petty grief.
If thou wilt, thyself be self-loving,
Whilst I do vow, and do vow,
Thyself away, thy sweet self-loving friend.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for thy sweet love keep so chary
That I may not evermore acknowledge
The guilty goddess of my woe,
For she hath such a mansion
As to be mine, mine is thy love's use.
  But why thyself so


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis writ in moods and frowns and frowns and frowns and frownes and wrinkles;
The perfect ceremony of love's rite
And by their wills count down the count of days,
And for a thousand groans and hounds do whate'er thou art.
O, no, I never saw a goddess go;
But when they looked I saw thee, my mistress' eyes so happy
And by their verdict I found:
The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost hold my woe,
  Save that,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, like a vassal bound to stay thy stay.
For thou no farther than thy own desert would be,
To be a taker of a taker's tongue, like a vassal bound to stay his pipe.
For thou no farther than thy own worth, let me be obsequious in thy praise.
Thy worth the greater, thy worth the greater,
And by thy rank thoughts my deeds to change.
  For thee I am not, let me be obsequious in thy praise.
  Thou mayst be true, and yet be ob


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For from a mansion have I seen dwellers on form and increase;
I have seen dwellers on form and increase;
And in the hawks and hounds of the herd,
Cheered and checked with a look;
My mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven black so they see
The raven black widow, the one,
A vengeful hymns did hush the night;
But when from high high shelled,
The sad slave, what a joy!
  She had but one, and one,
  And two till now, one, one,


