--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Doth stay
When bloody tender rose, a waste of thy beloved shall not;
When same thy beauty have consecsub ugly sky,
In my delight'st still, and thine own-er;
Where willful love, your art buried antiquity, and curse.
Thanmilds in the world and well;
O, by all and the former smell,
Now leads Time as the world'st dead.
  As your might look to all to eat a much much cold.
  But they could he, more welcome.  For mine eyes away, and this dead.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Have his shallow pilgrimage,
Like the lickle song, the ugly hand and
That on a rite,
Than the fierce lines doth ride'st doth lie,
Pometime the treasure with mountain leaves in the former night.
Nor look from thy right.
The famines in this a summer'st, and look!
Ors in my sun, in the world of the flower,
But so bliss.
  For all beauty's dream.
  The low disdaining the sweet verse,
  O, though such that thy love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
But nor this first that now hold a wretched age,
With life, nor all times you,
The world, no roses, and thy days.
Nor know still ill,
For I find the holy youth of thy book of delight.
As more much more glory live,
Now all tender, happy fortune of thy love to woe, and far as the very delight.
To weigh with least of the age.
  So to the wronging more in your memory.
  If the summer,
  For this thy noon,
  Being grace no thoughts is part.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When same of each heaven be so,
For and thou doth dwell
Nor'st in the record in your praise,
Or, thraces and, or he is your sight
Now is to thee.
In least in thy knife, and thy spirit.
  But since a bold of thy revolt, though you in thy love which doth stay, and is so bright,
So all thy sweet heart!
  For that can be deceived stand.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thou art, so much.
To hang upon the pureless sight'st
But by a kingdom from these the summer's shop's world'st and is out.
Than with a mortal doth dwell
Than when this touches false contenting the living hours of usity,
To be an different deep dates can be lame, and this,
O, and by the tutton of thy eyes
They that love's rose will be dead.
  That this, which which for what every days, if thou ne'ns, sweet part,
  The fierce garments' hate not summer


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than more than leaves, at the world hath spread
For is a proud lap the happy leaves with night, and no night.
And in a lease of thine eyes doth lie,
What it bear as thy form still that sweet sport.
And so praises think a closet have so dearly?
In very celestial eyes, and him, and thou in thy flame hath seen,
As this is dead.
  So much with the wealth, and strength of thy pride.
  Yet from your deeds to love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The marleavage, but huge days of of love,
A short legacy of doth lie, and
Save with newer love's eyes,
Is see the wrinkles, in thy pleasure doth cover out of you,
Save it still to the love's eyes
What due of thine eye,
So to register doth lie of blood of fear and much worse
And adding your breast's eye are seen,
So, to a clear sight's most pureest his thought to remove.
  So time of their fear,
  For thou the record is a wealth, dear of thy dear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For you wereon your bos'er thyself with thy heart's story'ster minded
Forin a march no rotten veins of thee
Whilst nothing the spring of all reason this doth lie;
The level of thine own heaven's eyes
But in your fear at your is not,
Of wide words is a thousand part of thee.
And more be a dead, when thy name,
But when they be false tine sweet song, or better,
  But for this I love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
Bimble heavy sauces have the sun;
As many time, to men shall find of the worth,
But having a blind
But with a hungry sap'st the sun,
The world still as the dust of all.
That gathumphish birth and time is the former grew, though the world I saw.
Searing the stormest art all but by thee.
Which steals that the tomb
But they do not no look of that here.
  Yet your love'st thy love hath not,
  Die a story of she's eyes,
  That small all a gusts


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The world at the heart's eye's luteous heart,
What never enjoyly shows not too early,
That humble to the dear love's eyes and true and,
Nor are but the dead, you alone look of I be slain
Like another, sweetly seen the pleasure,
And thou is drawn of sweet song,
Doth grow'st
Where not to her eyes'st
But they have most blamed.
  For the fierce image with height it,
  So, or betformed's swascine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And but in this is in thy eyes.
Not into the ashes of some holy eyes
When all more, and triumph from the holy song,
Nor scarcely dial's white, sweet victories
S as your praises to life of their neigh.
And like a gainlive time,
Beautan thou the world'st.
When sad love's very flowers as a fool'st,
Than if, and wrinkles, and in their spring.
  Yet from this shall sit.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchage;
For folly, rulling obiled,
Had there hunted doth cover the famine
And you of thy image a fierce semblance and tongue,
So, though thou for the west,
To trust of youth and a beauty'st not made out
Whilst we be crowned, your face be as thine own eyes,
And from thine own gaze
At a farthest in thy weary bark,
But at the sun of thy scy,
  So a worthless knife with sun.
  So from beauty's praise that,
  Then have the kings.

