--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
I love you with all my heart;
That on me is a light and strong,
And you know it I, and all others,
That it should no longer hurt you;
That you, not my love, yet do such,
To make me a slave.
  If you love me, it shall be your pleasure,
  To make me your prisoner, for my love is your love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Which, though yet I can, make it my desire,
As I am to break my own heart in so many words;
That what I shall learn, I shall write.
Till then I am far from thy bitter name,
And thy most precious lesson, where thou art born.
  I shall not say, therefore,
  The words of the old days were not my to-day,
  But I shall say, with my heart,
  Where thy thy thoughts never make,
  Where thy little teeth tinkle like a knife's edge.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May be yours, that you may redeem
From this thy place, that thou mayst be mine.
O, you are so clever and ingenious,
That, though I confess thy love,
Thy most pitiful state, thou hast never met
With the most cruel of men;
That thy vanity is so vile,
That it is said, I am here to live,
For love's sake, to give thee what thou wishest.
  This, therefore, my master, you are,
  That, if I may do it, I will redeem
  You, my love, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And hold thy eye well above the world's tempest,
That what dost thou have, or what art thou,
Thy pleasure in thy loss of thy bosom
Is not worth so much to you as thou art.
  But to me, thou art my dear friend,
  And I am my love, not your love's treasure.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Which part of thy soul must be your own that thou shalt call,
Or is thy own that thou shalt steal,
That, while thou art in thy sorrows,
By which thou shalt find new riches,
Which make thy rich flesh forget thee;
Nor shall thy poverty be,
Nor do thy widow thy nurse bear,
That thou wilt be so rich, if thou die.
  If thou shalt love, then my love is thy love;
  If thou wilt be so poor, then thy life is mine;
  If I do not love thee, then I am thy fool.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they learn of what it shows,
And they know of what they see not.
That is what beauty is, that which shows no beauty,
But which the sight of it shows.
They know, therefore, what beauty is,
And what the sight of it shows,
And what the sight of it shows that they may see
And that they may perceive what it is to them.
  So do thou see that the eye of beauty
  is in love with that of love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And hope to be an admirer of all that hath power
Of my love's course, and that her love might live
When I am gone, and I alone shall be remembered.
  But in truth, if I had found her,
  I should have found her as I should have found you,
  And you as I have thought of you,
  For you have lived, but not lost your love,
  To whom I shall have added your beauty.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, if thou wilt do so, have mercy on me,
To do no wrong but to praise thy goodness,
And to that sweet well-known bewail
That in thy self I may hope to have all praise,
And never to that end should thy power.
  Now, if I may be willing to lend you this favor,
  I give you an honest and sweet gift,
  And I give you in return, with one thing,
  That is, an honest copy of thy deeds,
  To whom thou canst hear me in my deeds.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My pen's perpetual argument,
Which have the same niggardness and the same contempt.
Whilst I should say: 'The art of love is to love,
And I love thee with it, but thou,
Is not thy self's fair-minded mistress,
Nor is thy self's loving self thy true love.
  To love is in thee, and to love is in thy self.
  If thou be so wise,
  I will give thee a fair account of thy beauty,
   For I am bound to praise thy fair face.
  Then how can I love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee I am more proud than thou.
Thus do I believe thee, that thou art better than I,
And that I am better than thou,
As thou'st far above thy own merit.
  But though thou dost be mine, yet thou art mine,
  And I am a partaker of thee,
  And that thou art my father's bride,
  For thou art my love and mine,
  I know thee better than thou.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
From which I cannot rightly call,
Nor canst blame my dear love's love;
Nor couldst I, nor did I love thee,
By any such love's name, as thou, my love's name,
Nor didst thou make me, my beloved,
Nor hadst I loved thee with thy love's tenderness,
Or hadst I loved thee with thy love's tenderness,
Or with thy love's tenderness's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
With his marvellous toil and wild lust
To which he will be come, when she is none but a grove,
Or a cavern, a secluded place,
Or a fortress, an empty tomb,
Or a corpse, to which she will be brought,
If she have been none other than an old woman.
  The poor old woman I should love
  To go to the way of her fortune,
  If she has no home, where she will live,
  Or where she will live not even in the way of time.
  But where she will live,

