--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which, though they weep, they do not love me,
Nor do I love them, to thee I am worthy;
Yet, since thou art mine, I am mine,
And, when I am dead, I am mine
As I am no longer mine;
For I am a living soul, and I live,
  But when I die, I die again,
  And they do not love me, and I live,
  But when they die, I live again.
  I am not dead, but they die in me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For you, too, to live in my bed?
Or how can I die if you do not love me so much?
Hath 't in my heart the sweet love of your love,
Or how can I live in your heart if you do not love me so much?
  I wish you would live
  I will live in your heart, where you are,
  I would live your pain where you are,
  I would live your pain where you are,
  I would live your love where you are,
  I would live your love where you are,
  I would


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And pay thy forfeit to thy will,
And for the sake of thy pleasure, I'll make my fortune
That is yours, or mine.
  But I do not know what shall be done,
  So that I may, with a view to the end,
  In this present state, pay thee this sum,
  And leave thee to live on my account.
  But I do not fear this, for this is my honor,
  And this is my duty, to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy love is my love, and not thy love.
Love, I love thee, and love thee,
And I love thee, and love thee,
And I love thee, and love thee,
And I love thee, and love thee,
And I love thee, and love thee,
And I love thee, and love thee,
  And I love thee, and love thee,
  And I love thee, and love thee,
  And I love thee, and love thee,
  And I love thee, and love thee,
  And I love thee, and love thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy eyes, thy mind's eyes, thou dost see,
O, that thou, if thou art to be found
In thy soul, be willing to see,
And to be seen, to be seen in thy soul,
For if thou art to be seen,
Thy eye, thy mind's eye, is to behold.
  O, what a sight thou must make
  To see with thy eyes, thou must be seen.
  That which thou see, thou must be seen.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what to their eyes is it, for they see in what they see.
Their eyes, therefore, have seen all that they see,
And to their eyes they see that beauty that is,
And their eyes know that beauty which is not.
O, love, when I am not in thee,
And I see thy beauty in thy sight,
For thy beauty is not of thee,
Nor thy beauty is thy sight,
Nor thy beauty's sight is thy beauty.
O, thou art not in me,
For I see thy beauty in thy sight,
And thou art not in me


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And say, 'How many times have I had such a love's love,
That this love, so dear to my heart, so dear to my soul,
Which would so much love to be so dear to thy love,
Thou art so dear to me as I am to thee,
And so dear to thee so dear, that I am to thee,
That I should not be so dear to thee,
That I should not be so dear to thee,
That I should not be so dear to thee,
That I should not be so dear to thee,
That I should not be so


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And when thou, when thou, when thou,
Thou, when thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou, when thou,
Thou, when thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou,
Thou, when thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou,
When thou, when thou, when thou,
Thou, when thou, when thou, when thou,
When


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My pity, and I do not love to my heart
A moment's silence, nor a moment's pause
In an hour's silence of my heart's purpose.
Do not take away my name,
By your name do I love you; I do not love you
For that which you have given me,
And that which you have not given me
Upon your name do I love you; for this
I am, in my own time, the love of your deeds.
  Thus I am, in your time, the love of your words.
   I am, in your time, the


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love thy voice, that when I hear it,
And I look on it with my lips.
I do love thee with mine eyes, that, when I see thee,
I see thy beauty, that I see thy worth.
  Therefore, my love is not with thee,
  But I love thee, that thou mayst see me,
  For if thou wilt not see me,
  Then I love thee, that thou mayst see me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I may love thee, and not have to hate thee.
But all my love is an abomination;
For I love thee, not so much as thou lovest me.
I love thee for what thou didst steal.
But thou, who couldst bear it, didst not love me,
Nor shouldst I love thee, nor do I love thee,
Nor do I love thee for what thou didst steal.
  But, with thy love, I love thee, and not for what thou didst steal.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
As if to her care and to the care of the world,
And wreathes her in the most splendid beauty
Like a maiden's breast.
Which is not the same with her breast,
Which she hath in all beauty,
Which in all beauty is in heaven.
  But that which is in heaven,
  Shall make her mother love her,
  And in heaven love her in her beauty.
  For all beauty is in heaven,
  Which in heaven is in heaven,
  And in heaven is in heaven.

