--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As white men, yet my love is white,
And yet my love is white,
The love of my heart, for my love's sake,
And yet I am not white;
  But thou art my love, and thy love is mine.
  But I am not the love of thy heart,
  For thou art my love, and thy love is mine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And that I should be condemned to thy neck,
And then to thy breast, and then to thy bed,
But that I should not, by thy girdle, be silent,
And so would I not be, if it were so.
  But the world, though it be mine,
  I can not bear to watch thee,
  To watch thee, if thou art so much in love
  That I should not, in love, be silent.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
The more I am to thee.
I am thy slave, my master's slave,
And in thy hand thou shalt be my master's ransom.
But I shall not be thy master's ransom,
For thou shalt see my face, and I shall be thy debtor.
  I am not to be thy debtor's debtor's debtor's debtor,
  But thou shalt see my face, and I shall be thy debtor's debtor.
   Thou shalt see my face, and I shall be thy debtor's debtor's debtor.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That for thy love's sake thou shouldst be
To my love's sake, to my love's sake;
Thou art my love's love's love,
And thou'st my love's love's love,
And thou'st my love's love's love's love,
Thou art my love's love's love's love,
And thou'st my love's love's love's love,
  And I love thy love's love's love,
  And thou'st my love's love's love's love,
  And thou'st my love's love's love's


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So, if thou art not so, I will not be,
For I am so, I am so, I am so,
And then, thou art not so, I am so,
For I am so, I am so, I am so,
And then, thou art not so, I am so,
  And then, thou art not so, I am so,
  And then, thou art not so, I am so,
  And then, thou art not so, I am so,
   And then, thou art not so, I am so,
  And


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet not what they see,
But, when they see what they see,
They see what they see, not what they see
When they see what they see, they see what they see
And they know what they see, not what they see
When they see what they see, they see what they see
And they know what they see, not what they see
  And they know what they see, not what they see
  Then, thou art blind,
  And thou art blind,
  And thou art blind,
  Thou art blind,
  Thou art blind,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, if she did, I would think her to be a young woman.
But she is a false man, that I should think her to be.
For, if I do, I think she is not worth living;
And if I do, I think she is not worth dying.
  But if I do, I think she is worth dying.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend,
For thou art my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend,
Thy love be my strength, my strength my love, my strength my love;
Thy love be mine, my love, my love, my love, my love,
For thou art my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend,
And in thee my love, my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend,
Thy love be mine, my friend, my friend, my friend, my friend


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy love to thee.
When thou art yet so cold, so cold,
And when thou art so hot, so hot,
That I can't bear to hear thee say,
Thy love's love, thy love's love,
Thy love's love's love, thy love's love,
Give me my love, thy love's love, thy love's love
When thou art so cold, so cold,
And when thou art so hot, so hot,
And when thou art so hot, so hot,
  That I can't bear to hear thee say,
  My


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou, my beloved, do my dear love love.
  But when thou wilt be so strong,
  Then do I love thee in thy heart,
  For thou hast that sweet heart, which is my love.
   But my heart loves thee in thee a thousand faults note;
   I do not love thee with my eyes, but with mine eyes a thousand faults.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And with thy own sin thou dost love,
Which, in thee, in thy own eyes,
Is an evil, and a good thing,
Thy self-love is the cause of thy love.
O, but with thy own love thou dost love,
And in thyself thou dost love,
Which is an evil, and a good thing,
Which in thee, in thyself,
Thou dost love, in thyself,
And in thyself thou dost love,
And in thyself thou dost love,
  And in thyself thou dost


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her love, in the greatest grief,
She gives all to the world;
And so, on the most unkind of days,
She lays her young babe at the door;
And, in the tenderest love, she bids
The dear mother of the child to be her own,
And, after she has borne her child,
She gives her beauty to her husband,
And then, when she is gone, she gives her beauty back
To him who gave her birth to him.
   But, when she is gone, she gives her beauty back
  To him who gave her

