--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my words sweet and dearest;
For these we mourn, and their weeping look
The solemn as the weeping death of sweet self,
In the image of death made of sorrow.
  But thy good, sweet spirit I praise,
  For thou dost break my sorrow,
  To wail thy bones out, that thou shouldst be buried.
  For it is that love of thy brother,
  To make him the guilty, in my time,
  And it hath slain my heart to curse thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The hour will not depart, but to set my form to work,
That sweet sweet love that lives in my heart
Than those others so do, that the best of love shall have me.
  The blessed woman I cherish in heaven,
  I might comfort in the wilderness of youth,
  The woman I love in myself should love in me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine heirs can't save.
So what to do with thee
I take, what I owe thee to thee?
I am bound to thee for to steal, but that which you grant,
I make it for thee.
So be it, my dear one, that, though thou dost steal,
Thou still know that thou shouldst live,
If I have in thee my soul, and thou my heir
With that treasure in me, in my best will,
That it be sure, that thou shouldst not die.
  And this by the end of my lives shall thou live,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So with mine own impatience leave thee wroth.
Behold, thou art so bold of dost think that she love me,
And you with me too say, she's one,
That would'st thou know where she shall get my grace.
  Thus can I change thy hope,
  And if thy gird me too heavy thou wilt fall,
  In thee will I find thy life in woe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
My doth my desire thy, thy hope,
And my part that thou dost have
Thy present condition t'en fight with mine eyes.
So do thou lie with me that I might see thee,
And that I may let thee know where thy most high and gentle shade lies.
  O, thy beauty, my sorrow!
  And thus my happy words have run,
  But if thou canst in vain let them,
  Then why hast thou said these vows?
  I, with thee, to believe that thou shalt not be taken.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they believe what is not.
And yet thou art this wise eye;
Thou well by love hath love's golden shine,
Which so often abounds
And doth thou make thee a fair night's bed
And eye that of beauty's best,
That thus that with love doth die.
  If thou do not live, thou art that rareest of dost.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which to whom love I have given the word,
And not to myself I tell him her secrets,
Which might, though at least he may not show,
Still might leave him under me when the days come
And to leave me, and to lie I show.
  But for that my love is still love's doom,
  And so will she tell him where she finds him,
  And if she gives him anything but his deserts,
  She will write him some of her own;
  But that his time shall be that when she is left,
  To lie with me, that


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As with thy slow, cruel countenance,
Against whom thy presence lies time's measure,
And that thus, thy sense turns thine eyes upon me,
Thy youth with youth's leave must he not give,
Or so I should call thee, nor his present him,
Where thy youthful beauty of youth lies by.
  To me therefore doth he woe, my desire not on my part;
  For though thy countenance be seen
  In another youth, that doth live again in me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my scorn.
Thou shalt be a better work than thou.
And thou dost better as thou art,
Thou hast deserved more esteem than thou.
Thou hast slain to do with my foe's aid,
For as thou is a tyrant's instrument,
Thou must not seek strength by going from place to place.
My slander then is less a slander of the cause
Of mine own wanton manner than of that which so tires me.
  The poets are better writers, but those in thee,
  These you see to be true not of the heart,
  But only in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which to keep my esteem, shows my wonder,
And ill amends my affection.
  For if thy thoughts bear me a name,
  I am certain of my being wrong.
  But since I hold this present peace,
  My praise not to be but praise to him,
  For though thou tellst me that I should rather live,
  But when he sayeth that I should prefer,
  He showeth me my first love, in what time he sayeth it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And with my hate of mine own love,
Let the world say to me, "Thy virtue may be gone,
When thy virtue is but poor doth in mine own free praise.
Be thou my love's weak heart, then no more show,
If thou wilt lose the best love.
Thy strength and beauty of your own is much, if thou love,
And then thy woe, with all the world,
Doth still seem that thou must die."


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Says to her all praise: 'This I must
Duty with my own beauty and praise of love;
As I myself must be paid to you;
O, for you so in the sight of mine,
Who that by my doored pleasure in me love,
When love would be dear to thee but to thy name,
Is more and more dull and less true,
And more by me, more cold and less lively,
  But love as you can to love yourself,
  Your love must keep my heart fixed
  And your heart's true, thy true love to me


