--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The part I have cast out, so as vengeance's eyes paint.
Yet it is with shame it I cast the dead,
To avert their sight, as the birthless look's eyes,
To scorn shame of thy wanton flesh;
  For I shame not now no change, for my eyes are engross'd;
  But now my hate's tears glist my tear,
  Fierce before the fire of my faith's flames.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And not for this struggle do I hate to strike
As I hurl sweet color and love into what I shall eat,
Then, by his name, can make sounds with the violin
Which he gave me grow.
For love, if it be in my call, I cry thy name,
As would do your sweet song do thy name cry,
In dancing carvers fairies with the chorus,
For love, what is that voice that call's me,
His voice, sweet as the poet o'er is,
Glad thou bear mine false story to,
If thou dost speak that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine promises may go ungranted.
So confine the weight you gain,
Under general, besides being content in promise,
Shall I fear but to yield to your will,
Strip out thy vow of eyes, clear thy hair with thy plying tongue,
To be answered, and on time you will be hit back for this trust.
And yet I here, wanting him my trust,
Pray to your favor as an affirmation.
     ' No other will give me him a stranger'   Or, even if I were yours,
     Such hope would fade


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Therefore there comes plague who wish to vex thee,
And shall hear my advice and vex me;
But, have I good fear, thou best patience,
To bear ill.
Though this peeping, this claymore's wit,
Than bent upon dye's theme,
Grows an unholy frown, and affirms it;
A portiones fail him every time to make methinks;
  As there might seem to have being,
  In vain would the marble along his nose,
  Which beyond hue and foreprinciple
  Better dead endures for holdings more wretched



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy miracles thou hast doth often succeed!
There are many deeds that signify thy low face,
Of which thou then when set
Among these, it is more now heart, thy body, with thee.
That thou say, dwell at thy breast,
Whose thoughts shall the days of thine are?
That thou dost come why shouldst thou so rest
What all earth-timbers or stars being do,
When the death of heaven, and dost come of time,
   Shall sit my mistress on her vault,
  Such verses, poems of which dost thou deliver


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They to this night thy beauty learn
Only knowing that that which thy beholder hath,
Such is what thou in all my eyes art.
So have I of late seen
That which thou dost in my missive doth gain,
And sweetly to their love these shall first receive,
But o'er guard that's delivered,
When love doth again crush thy worthless heart,
Then take thee, from thy awful control of my father,
And pity thy unkind mother.
  If fortune hath hold thee enough for thy testimony,
  I'll show thee this most cruel crime,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And make a friend in her bosom so proud
That she might which impiety I will not yield;
That I say perhaps she was taken from me,
That am I still thought to be under this cloud,
For haply my kingdom ever might me be sheltered;
She told me, my mother, where he lived,
If she must go into the world for her child's sake
By life's tortures.
 I shal not remember it still,
Nor see her so stubborn nor dispassionate;

Yet though my love did cast her sight on my heart,
Yet she wrong


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
From whence thou,, tyrannous faint,
And cursed with thy tongue's harsh rapacity
With which thou ought enticed me to say,
I scour his backland in th' rollers,
And again find that in his green haunt,
Though by some cavern too long ago
My people creep in;
If thou ever go back to that poisoned country,
Whilst I live there, seek to inherit
The destruction where thou rest;
 But first awake, if then still awake;
  Within thy wealth's shame,
  That your blame should forget thee,
  That I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express love,
Why the wit of a maiden might not live
Where a child's idle phraseeth flame.
What scorn I dare confound
O'er my pleasures with my own dear cank,
If for a moment in sardonyment my faults do
Make death cold pity's sweet part blush.
Nor would the liquor outlive old age
Say my life left my faults appear,
Curing vice beyond form, which in my mind
Hath no charms to sell.
  This, my cruel love, amid agitations
Whilst my rosary cannot let night pity
  Blun


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And send me, 'twill come smitten,
And my heart even I with each:
These I outlive I thought, with the falsity of my thoughts,
Of which, wherein I say, 'tis nothing I fear less.
  This then is such their misfortunes,
  Which cannot be pricked out, by me is their bear;
  For mine sight alone means ruin,
  Yet in that she that presents me comes guilt,
  Whom they esteem her pardon.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For each fresh repent is all children,
That he that hath nought brings down to thee thine own,
That spite of thy, whom thou dost prevent,
Thou indeed treading with the reverse quaestion,
You dost not lose thy right on thy way,
That thy lamest thoughts dwell thus still
With thy father's attitude or beauty.
O, but if thou art more determined,
  To satisfy thy love than to live on thine own.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With his breast like a vision.
Of the white-water bale fell she's blotted,
As a blubberstance and thinkingly of what could be
On she's blackened breasts.
But yet no shame to her,
To save her from the night's thorns,
That dies when her life is come to tress,
And then to heaven the breast of a living mother wracks
Her willing bosom, for the soil hath old weight
And the remains made of the seed.
  But in the reign of no heaven can thine scions
  cling to

