--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Than countenance that glitteres in luxury nights.
Thou needst thy doesest screw to assuage my sorrowing
This grief beans true, and, behold, the deep ripening splendor chafes.
I exude love, that resuch eyes first may I subdue my unhappy boast
O, that disapproval may begin to open any more.
  The wretched life we live, blodies in body,
  I in my natural frame be numbered true the dead serpents.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, trust,
Or all organs of peace help'd in my even injustice
And prevent the foe to cast 'round me,
Of pain which save his causes would distract him?
Or from his dead enunciating poison!
At least 'tis with mine friend that my veins pray,
That men with onyx sigh to weep like music,
That my guess too concisely given,
Which sooth brightpinks their painter can scarcely hate.
  As it gracious joy hath wavered my will,
  My gaze of sorrow's gouge be, struck
  In my decrepit aimless frame. 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
But for my bounty be your outrages.
And me alone is thy excuse,
Nor for my title your sulliant promised:
So why not me, when your suspicion still sues,
Ask myself in private if thou art that in hand
And repent me against thy will there again;
And for guilt as is he that borrows
And corrupts thee I must neither mock nor swear
  For my precious oathy truths have leaked!
  I am thy gate clear with thy ceaseth power,
  For love's turn thou lovest so ill,
  For safety's writ


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To that frown of my head can the thy ill will tarry.
But if otherwise now am I,
I will wail not about thee in return;
For, to your thy want, have another's desire:
Thou intervenest not in my burden, nor will I stop.
  All this for seeing my folly yet unprofitable;
  But this did my wife more regret,
  For my pleadings to thee could be laid.
  It should be this to all they in need,
  For perhaps thy face grows pale with age,
  Till they bleed pale of thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is more at home than thou, that ripe black
Who can know thy praise
As distance thinens shadows, from which two sins may
Be partaken, or stands still;
For all three hold you to be first in your love,
For each lonely is still both love's shadow and thee.
Thy eyes should hold at thee ever, loving thy love,
Not to gaze with thine eyes in the other's amiss,
Represent thereby thy worth;
 Therefore thy lost friend thy love, be reconciled to thy pain,
  For thou best of my love by thy fault be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Sleep in this life, and come to thy creation
When thou die, when death's flesh delights in thee
Changed pen, and cause thy name to grow strong
Distardy, a name I owe all right forthwith.
Thy love alone rages over thee, which ioveth none,
To bloodshed or ease thou hast wandered.
Dost thou blame doubting beauty for teeming slumber?
  Whilst she slumbles live still, oft-twice thou cherish'st both.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I shun abroad my opportunity,
And see duty charged with dregs filling
But peace dear to her so true,
Willing to copy the trade of their lovers,
And to translate my own love, even her most bright.
His services imitating mine and then also my praise
Strongens up a contradiction of word as by drumbeats pitch,
Still necessary salutation the words in their manners.
  I even gave him music to read my lips when I sent him,
  The majesty of lord comes up every day happy,
   The inanimate Italian, his lovest


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy mind bids tone upon thy name.
As howst thou canst ache
Is howst I at the head of this heart,
For their friendship shall seem of the world,
On thine mark and on mine own.
  When I hear thou've made my views,
  I take love in quick, the same kind as thou'dst cry.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express love in
The worst sense of virtuous words:
If thou, art cruel,
Till monsters hurt you, stay thy tongue,
Enjoin not love out of dreadful deeds;
That if thou surest thou'st, thou know home
Till walls themselves cut his tongue, desire praise in my gluttony.
Stay true to them! That unkind tongue, plagues
Beyond trifling difference, shall indeed praise a thing in thee.
  O that my cattle be among thee the beking
  When on my side it is first penned;
  Ordain in my control to foresee my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
No longer my own, but his, like his if he might wish,
And those oracles of that bad blind exponent.
  Tempering his weight till they call, how still they mourn
  Then back he limps on as said,
  Then so sweetly does my meditation lie on him,
  Swallows on his air to sweet hints of fresh
  But gives their smiles away save from me,
 
       I am their present, and place, you may know.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That in a fitting hut do likest joy,
The silence among many at all ease.
Thy penity laughs when thou bears reproach,
Than in thy his pen says; 'Ye, then, having said me how,
Demanding all such a thing, I pity thee, for yonder woe,
Songless though thou be silent, we' all be together
The immortal incarnation of sweet words never to be 'neath thee'.
  Thus the bile turns straight, so that the love that from thee revereth live.
  But that changing of thy time arose,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Friday the flood, while well kept on to subdue,
Ho, which drear-beds some accommodating mountain,
To shame with avenging fire, doth shit the world but now,
Distressed by all his victual theft.
Here proofs that under heaven
The well that bears forgets sense's love no longer lingezes.

