--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which have a bitter name to do me a good death,
And hold them as black as black thoughts
When I think of the dark sorrows of thy death.
  The sorrows of thy sins, so long, so long,
  And with these sufferings I live
  When my life is weary, and my death is sweet.
  My love, my love, this melancholy fate,
  I bear, this state of mind
  That will bring on death to me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And now is it with my dear love's sweet passion to bear,
And sweet-hearted patience to love's muck.
For so much love, so much love, and so much love,
Gives a tear to my heart, and my spirit to all things
And makes me sing praise and love;
When it is time for me to think of any sweet heart,
And when I find myself singing a new song,
That one for love's sake alone is able to bear,
  And when my heart needs time to sing,
  I can no longer bear it alone.
  My


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hath the title of my worth.
He that lies idle may well afford me another end.
And now I shall not, nor can I repay him.
But I am, that he may think, and not live,
And in his lust shall he be gone, if he live
With me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That if thy son in mine days am at ease,
Thou dost, for the present, make thyself more useful,
For my sake shall thy grace come to pass,
And still shalt thou, that I may not perish.
  Then shall thou thy day stand before my heart,
  That the day in which I die may my life live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thou shalt see thy soul depart,
In this world thou willst leave me.
If thou art not there, I am, in this world thou wilt see.
Thy eyes are not so sharp,
Nor yet so many eyes I see thee,
Thy eyes so bright as mine.
My mind is so far behind me,
That thou wilt look for me but the same.
  If thou canst see me, I am far gone.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And their eyes have sight, for that beauty lies,
That they are filled with love,
And seeing in their own sight what beauty lies,
They may see, and be filled with that love
That love makes all things in heaven,
And all things which are not in heaven dwell,
  But the stars, when they behold the stars,
  Shall see them in their love's shadow,
  And when they see them, they shall see,
  For love's grace will have seen them in their beauty
  And love's glory shall see them,
  And they shall see with their


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And not more assured of my own beauty than the name,
Which, so richly embellished in your image,
May tell of me to your dear mistress,
And, to her full view, I will tell your own age.
  You have your time, and I am your best friend,
  And, being a man's lover, my love's mistress.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou, in this malady,
That I would the wretched woman love to love,
Thou hast now condemned my world to the eternal rage.
  But if thou wilt, as in my name
  Shall my dear life be but a death,
  I should feel as though thy worth were on my head.
  Yet in the present age
  I am better off, and my own love's loving thoughts,
  Than this cruel doth spoil my hope.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my true heart.
A more loving tongue is in the wise,
Which does not curse my tongue, but calls forth my beloved's
Oughtiness, whose delight is more than her love's.
And as a lover's love makes her delight, so mine own delight is
And when thou wilt make her joy, give me my tongue.
  I say not what thou shouldst say, but that I may,
  To be thought worthy of thy sweet words.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And mine eye that looks at what they say.
As if in the clouds had the eyes of my own beauty
And my youth and youth's youth's youth had a common home.
When all things were with one's own eyes,
Then my eye was with me, as the night on a hill is;
For the love of heaven is with me.
  But when I am sick, and are dead,
  Then my eye will never be lost.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I should hold in peace the same love,
And love to thy own worth a full share,
Or in time thy own worth a new one,
Which would, in time, hold my own interest.
Or in time my own love would be the same,
Or in time my love would be the same.
  That was thy question; and thou dost answer it
  When thou wert but not to see the truth,
  Or when thou art so long as I am,
  To have, even as I am, your love's change.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The new stage with her leaves is open,
As the great and familiar stage doth the moon:
And, seeing the star do appear,
To come forth to see her is the true end.
   And her first turn is for joy,
  Where her sweet grace bears to hold her back.
  Then, seeing the moon come forth to change,
  Then, she shall be gone, but, since then no more;
    To her own will she be, to those whom she has kept.

