--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The white and dear were first borne,
Or so pale at heart as was your own eyes.
If ye wonder not, that my young frame
Is corrupted by hate;
I in now, cold love your loving ghost,
As in mine before thee is counterfeit,
Whose mouth makes the stream in the ocean
And her tongue, both mouths should find;
Then, but within thee, the white blood,
Which breathes the same air,
Removes your fear, and makes you blackest and most happy;
  No name more, no delight more,
  Yet in me time passed


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That so with her I might live?
When will I, upon my face, be so fond of my love,
To her the love of another's length?
  But I think that by so loving a mother should her more well grown,
  Which God the world makes mine mistress,
  Not only now but in the life of our weary heart,
  And that by my heart must he leave her,
  The better to hold her fair eyes,
  I bring joy to her when I die.
  When my love is done, I no longer love her but in her old state.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will draw thee back.
Now I will, therefore, divide my house,
And there will be no use of my more expensive clothes,
And I will be deprived of that fairest of colors
That is loved by your fairest, and every of your spirit.
  If you own more, my beauty, if I have neither the shade nor all the sweet in me,
  you, too, can be true in your mind,
  for though I may show it in your eyes, I am of a shrivelled,
  didst thou not see my true woman's face before me?



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And so shall she bear me.
When you should have mercy over me,
Shall still hunger be out of all,
And you will have thy only, so that my hunger shall be gone.
  Who shall keep thy death
  Is it, like poor root, whom you should repay
  And die more oft than thee?
  I am in thy charms, I say, who am most tamed;
  And of no more am I like thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then thy human friend will make thee,
And by thee shalt thou thrive,
That thou shalt be thy best companion.
The world with thy head thine eye,
The world's breast thee with thy head,
 And thou art thy true self
  Any self of honor what thou art,
  An ape, or another is thy friend,
  For a coming glance I need to teach thee.
  So far as thou rest thy hunger from my sight,
  O my soul's star,  For return thou are bidden.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, yet,
To ever draw nearer the light of love,
They seek their truth, mingle with that which they know
Of each other's touch where thou knowst not.
Who knows what love love is? the love that loves your self
As your own, That which it calls your own love!
Some love thyself though thyself knows, others though thou wilt.
  They love their self-love, their love was it not yours!
  To know what that love is, you must know nothing!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When she says I am vain;
When all the eyes, heavy in color, wait to behold
My beauty, day and night in each other's shadow,
The ethereal is like water's beam,
The moon, red and yellow
In glittering in flashes, capricious, in a thousand morn
Like the sun, sweet in moon's hue.
  Such days as these my love's give you
  May you better believe it by my time.
  And all mine praises are in me immortal,
  Adieu and honor in every circle.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And cherish my strength, my breasts, and be my friend,
When thy pain is heavy in yours.
The half-opened box, drunk with love,
In which thou wert deserved,
Stirring your cheek so far as thou didst draw;
And such vein as thou hast filled with her glass
Doth in this account alone doth and longing
Do them some truth, and with them thou art most content;
For no such discharger could arise,
Since thy soul could keep her face and body.
  Such is the truth of love;
  I gladly bear it


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What truth I may feel nothing, for the truth
Is true which is in heaven, and not in heaven.
Be generous, make a right hand,
Whilst ills of earth melt away; do not weep in pain;
After the inmost days make thy rage fresh,
And I desire thee to reign. 
  And thou alone am at war; and you, not far
  from me, my friends, remember me, love me;
  I know the ages' faces better than heaven,
  and by my enemies as they do.
  To such am I, I will


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I themselves wherewith all faults seem
To lose sight in shame.
   But thou art my advocate, and before my eyes,
  Though thy self to-denial is some place to hide.
   But that self that belongs with me,
  This excuse which thou burn in mine mind,
  That small faults give thee eternal misery.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Save their wholesome support, so strong was their own sin,
O, but only when they were strong by his strong side,
Had love made them fear Him.
And now, be thou'st ious, be thyself strong,
That your well-reposed tongue may sing thee praises,
When thou bearst this sweet love with it.
  But life do no such song to keep up
  There's no sense in this love being heard,
  and you are what thou shouldst hear thyself say.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With wild pride of day and night,
And flies up with him from his downy field.
Like the vile tic of honey, this she cares of,
And the world with her steps of gladness asks
To bring her back to his chad and down."
Thus then the witless poet put her to flight.
She came to him,
And in dancing he grew stronger,
And women's red lips were pulled round his neck,
As the fire, the air, fire, fire.
He laughed, and reared up,
When, like a child, did each go l

