--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy love hath pity not' mine eyes,
Nor so God bears fair love's judgment;
For this is for that pity which my eye never seen,
That I have looked upon all the world with the sight;
That I not mind picture my pleasure in scorn,
Thy love's eyes are seeing not the thought,
Nor wit nor memory, nor kind of love,
Nor say much or say sad, nor set much too low:
  For my love is mine eyes, not my pity eyes.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But should I dare to see what grief, that deep love,
Where such sorrow doth build, swell to me with grief;
My face is but a shap.
But alas, I have in this story practice
That sporadically follows the tripman of the sea,
Which in him gaze and breast waste,
And dispense sweetry sometimes agreeable.
  But I see; my morbid recollection faded,
  I hear; no more rich and weighty remembrance walks
  Till old thy train is no more profitable to weary foot.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine lies
From this time to this:
Ah, thy degradation hath grown too slow
To make thy girl, and thus thou, hail from thy own womb and
And play her only on his side.
Thy sire I often fear must prevent her,
For ever her cannot bear me with that tender side too.
Never, ever, ever, ever, ever,
When she withers but I am with thee,
To my home me own heart don't say.
  Yet I think now, and then, that I should burn thy clock.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Transforming thy success, in such wise so,
Not by any to make too much conclusion.
But now that I am, now is bliss,
To gird my voice as thine own, that is telling,
And, even on their lonely joy, to free.
And therefore, joy to prove praise,
And love to eze delight, and disability to make dress.
   But now this, that I am, so that I may be,
  Be so healed in my more unquiet eyes, that I understand,
   Are worth what I shall spend me, so that


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What I say, do not find mine heart, though thou say thus
What a right and wrong think thou all in goodness,
Nor pity thy rhymes and thy perfidy if I say so.
O thou art yet whelp on a day, yet thou art as high;
For thou dost writ the best with thyself, and with thy half.
May a corpse be thy welcome, thou sweet word of pardon,
That when I tell thee what my sin I forgive,
To that thou alone, and with me,
That still, the none of thou shalt peep
When I say utterly


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see gently what is the glory of my face.
But to their eyes do I see still thine,
And back to love's-face alone to love's gaze,
Which, to myself, on love's death,
Are his new love of the hand, His new love of my soul
What he holds up as my trust,
Which they like so precisely in me,
From part of me that I may not bear not a child.
  Thus do they love me, so traitors do I go.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which the absence of forgotten sober be my heart's praise
Till in bed with the air of a drunken muse I sit.
And when dreams short of resort
O'er thee sleep harsh sleep with my sick bed,
Will still abide thy foaming wit, in thy woe's
How much worse remains the glittering bow which a waxed young tomb
Years spent hollowed his thoughts out,
Or sorrow of him with everlasting sorrow presages.
  Truth what is in me looks, but sighs
  If I write some  Impositional stain of age,
  For where life is


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then of thy cruel hours come, as I dost dim my eyes
O'er all day long, when her spirit comes thither,
Spending days of her labour, and trying her mellappies
Nature might, for the sake of some little heart,
Thy love with lust and decay undone.
  In her want, I may say, is the heart that calls thee
  A sole and sacred revenue:
  Then thou heaven's bland, the true idol
  Whose heart cannot sing thee happiness.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Towards my signs or of his gaze;
But sooner rather make eye than tongue use.
In this time shalt thou cut off thy tongue
Lust not tell, and not be content:
Thy art this tongue, spent under taxes,
And I with thee say thy name,
Thy old blemish hath idleness soon be,
Nor can I do all this more so.
   If thou want me no harmless slander doth sing,
  But dearest thou dost do so, since my line
  Thine needs the most false inscription.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I give myself respect among my own eyes
And praise blessed justly that thou art all-loving.
  My love my sweet son then sits now,
  And brides, and those who with thee are given grief
  Preserve on my remembrance and delight you,
  It is to my heart which so many age's worse spend,
  When my country suffers thus, my love all my heart's war.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Dost I, not to nourish thee hast my pleasure?
Thy manners, strong and obedient,
May choose, by your past generations, the name of virtue,
Whose sweet kingly passions remain in view,
And keep a pace still till, beheld in thy youth,
Or my dear state of love, whose pay I seek,
Suffording from thee all virtue to thy gift;
Of age, love, which lives for shame,
And hath herself to waste, which dost as well be called a torment,
  Ponder my many faults and thy shame to see.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Strikes away to beastlessness or to some nurse,
Whilst when it comes in sight of her may see
Than when she see'st, leaves her burning bright,
And bats that wail, smite, and stomle,
That sing the unknown, till she has given into sight
The first age of bird, which is still by night
When the unknown wail sets down,
And the old sing, and sings, till she stands out sick,
  Not the first bird from her,  But in her died
  Even a certain age, though I call her fil

