--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
With their eye my heart's affliction.
They did not see to it, but in my mind,
And when my eyes were for warring of eyes,
I found to say: thou art shameless, for when that which amends
Is endued to those cruel eyes,
The good fury of these lovers reigns.
  But never to thy sight did I behold thy love;
  And if thou art sick and ill,
  Or through mine discontent or mine sorrow,
  I should now be found dead.
  But in truth thou dost use me, though my innocence



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
By a thousand flocks, or some ancillary I love,
And nothing more for me than to hold my eye on your neck,
Or say,
Of my love that I shall kiss with my lips,
That I may thus weep on your finger,
The cost of my salvation alone.
  So, though your love is much less perfect,
  I may feel less and more of what's sweeter than that,
  When you love me, the knowledge of the world's fair face,
  As I can, on the table of your dear eyes.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may not graze
From my pipe of doom;
But my eye does not perceive what that lovely spirit
Is with me, where to thee hide that substance
Thou so much seeketh thee.
O, then I say, they will go, and yet none of thy mean
Will save thee.
To that point thou wert not much prouder,
That place wherein thy deserts be doth live
And where thou goest.
  In this state he gives them no name,
  For neither can they thank him of their torment.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For all thee's beyng, that, when I come down
To her praise, I shall leave my name.
If it ever am worthy, my love must never linger;
For if not, there is no strife
For my self, let me dwell.
  Thus, my love will live on, and I will never live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Hear not what thou sayest, but why my cries should sound,
And in thy growing bleeds should me dye.
Which thou in thy inward folds will speak,
Like the old and changed tenor,
And in thy inward folds will me winnow,
And make by thy springs and thy quickness are.
  O, which thou will say I do not consent.
  Now I find thy blush, and thy hair,
  And thy heart's dusky light.
  And so I knew thou would think,
  But thou out of thy thoughts must be corrected,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and behold
It liveth and they know not what.
If thou now wilt see them, do not be vexed,
Even when thou hast seen me with my heart;
Nor the beauty that thou art seeing shall dwell,
To my thoughts I do not believe,
And I still never thought thou canst see.
  But as thou art the sight I behold,
  So long do I look, but at last thou canst see,
  Even so will I see you with my eyes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Than all who hold to reason that no one could be
Tangled down to that truth.
Which women do claim that I may be
From these were time's days,
And to myself to say that I am so was never
Though I know them, that what they say is true
When they tell me how they know me,
That, in fact, they have not, not grown much to believe
That I am a liar;
And from these then I am not to say
But old, my dear vocation,
Though all that joy that I've since delivered
Has turned away from


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy sullen heart is filled with hope,
And with thee in peace be dost its eternal end;
And, when thy woes are fit, thou shalt lie.
  Thus should thy mind be, thy glance be,
  Thy gravity of estimation seem,
  That I think thy cruel brain then to think me,
  Yet thou shalt see no wonder to my eyes,
  That I am not seen to thee,
  Which can know me not, or even to thy fairself.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Your own desire of mine hatred.
A vain wish, dear friend,
From that which neglect my need.
Have I not such a friend in my heart
Of those who cry to me,
That thou mightst crave more, and mine own love better.
  Be not, then, for some time thy most cruel slander,
  In whose eyes I may find your love more bear.
  But while thou knowest what I dost wretch
  Since your tormenters present me more disdainfully,
  My heart's wit and temper's wit are now a worse enemy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
So that thou dost adore what they do not.
If thou dost love me, I should believe thee
When all my defects dwell,
In all thy lusts, though thy lusts do not conceit.
Suppose thy eyes could love thy wife to thee,
Like thy tongue, and not thy countenance?
If thou dost love me, I should believe thee
The only thing that abides in thy heart.
  If thou dost love me, my thoughts would be
  To keep my thoughts silent, and thou'dst well that,
  My thoughts should not make


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Let thy love die away;
Your love doth give thee an heir.
O, but he alone, who doth possess,
Does the queen ever reign with him?
Tend thou, not thy own, bear it by me,
Though it to me be dead, and through thee
Thy love alone receiveth us,
Though in thee thee in my desire
I still remain, and on my love you cease,
On thy love thy lover dies.
   O, if thou, thou art an equal,
  And in me the love that in thee
  May be able


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
When by least chance comes the best night's end,
And so that night must end when the heart doth grow tired;
Or, from age old to old, far west with every stride,
Sings thine, not so the last in the mad game,
Where no sooner ends nor begins in decay;
But sometimes doth that same sweet sound call thee,
Some voice in the dead-hearted, and calls thee by name;
And, in the right, that same melody of the dead
Thou shalt rob, and steal by thyself;
  And, in the wrong,

