--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes on me, and pitying me with grief,
Shall they be fair and fair to me,
Thy eyes on me, and pitying me with grief,
Thy eyes on me, and sorrowing me with grief,
I love thee with all my heart,
And with all my heart, and with all my heart,
                                                    


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And yet I am more sure
That it is not enough to keep me from my own,
That I should not live to my own end.
'Tis true, though I should die,
That I should live to my own end,
And that my love should not live to my own end.
  And yet I am not sure that I should live to my own end.
  For yet I am sure that I should live to my own end.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be
And mine, if I have no need of it.
But I must not say that I am willing
To do so, for it is not worth while
To say that I am willing to be gone,
That I am willing to be gone, that I may live.
  But I am not willing to say that I am willing to die,
  For it is not worth while to say that I am willing to die.
  And yet, I am willing to live,
  And I will not die.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And canst thou do me wrong?
Thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love,
Thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love, thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And, in thy heart, will I hear thy voice,
Thy voice, thy heart's voice, will know thee.
Thy soul, in thy heart, will know thee,
Thy heart's heart, in thy heart, will know thee.
  And thou, in thy heart, will know thy love,
  And, in thy heart, will know thy love.
  And, in thy heart, will know thy love,
  And, in thy heart, will know thy love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art the one that can bestow
And that thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most beautiful of all,
And that thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most pure of all,
That thou art the most


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might think me a young man,
That she might think me, in the love of my love,
That she might think me to be of a very good quality,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me to be a wise man,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me, in my love,
That she might think me, in my love,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy dost be my life, thy beauty, thy beauty's beauty
And all my glory, all my beauty's beauty's beauty,
Thy beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The spirit of my youth.
When I am not with thee, do not be content with my words,
Nor can I say, 'O, my love, do not do this,
For thou art not to me what I am.'
  Then do not, therefore, tell me, 'O, my love, do not tell me,
  For thou art not to me what I am.'
  Then do not tell me, 'O, my love, do not tell me,
  For thou art not to me what I am.'
  Then do not tell me, 'O, my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that, when I see them, I love them in their faults.
  But I love thee, and I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou, that I love thee, and I love thee,
  I love thee, and I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou, that I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou, that I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou, that I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou, that I love thee, and I love thee,
  And thou


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And this of thy love's favor,
That is thy own, and this of thy love's favor.
Thy love's love is my love, and thy love's love's love.
Thy love's love is mine, and mine is mine.
Thy love's love is mine, and mine is mine.
Thy love's love is mine, and mine is mine.
                                            


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her to the end of the world,
To the great place where the world is,
And where she shall be in her last hours.
And she shall be all the world's, all the world's,
And all the world's will be all that she may be.
  And she shall be all the world's, all the world's,
  And all the world's will be all that she may be.

