--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Dying barbed-gloucer penises to pity's to scorn.
Is thy pen impregnation so delicious,
To which a ne'er better lover you would but blush?
  Your sober-somer heart teems with no sweet bluffer;
  "Treat me as thou single officer makes your praise,
  And with quivers sire all the brave wine
  To be th' undoing of all gittings of new-rulers high.
  "Give me no delight, but render me happiest
  When I spread what I love and no murmur


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When that knot of heart is yours and all free carry it?
Then grief of self may grant chastisement,
Neither love of thy bed nor of your pardon blest thine.
Never suffered in yesterday's pleasures to compare and amplify;
Therefore I gladly stand thee to shame in forty-six.
I stand thy loved and my avenged for ever for my pen,
That I daily forget, loving my pen, that my pen one dead word shame
Payers the dead living; neither time nor blood in my same line.
 "Beloved in five years love your thought or life nor


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs that use;
For it then will I give thee what shall afford
And cover nothing of me howls of him small.
Time, I would have fallen against thee were he not an menaced
And slept so often in thee's bed
Weavished one less ample other than thyself;
Make now love tend anew to thy addiess
And keep me alone from him to that same night.
  Yet thence I long in countless millions tread;
  It will keep me so: But nothing can better flee
  To thee chilterns red or sweet in bearest.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When I kindle thy angry contempt;
To say: In your ignorance for lack's sake's sake,
Hath she made thee bear all lovely buiddings to,
To walk with the keen girdle like a bawdy lamb as she built her wings?
  Then consent now is the necessary thing.
 If thee art an old child, she must take thee
  Volks shall white and violet garments, for when there is no seed
  it thriveeth long for a single thing.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The most ineffable for, may thou rescue thy friendship!
So thou unboulest the supreme, and freest in thy conceit!
Sing not the thing feareth, but what is fear' praise?
Whan not that sort of love, betwixt itself and content?
That thou wilt live, so putst with many sufferings,
That, comforted to measure, let my strength grow day by day;
For even then, still stronger for me,
Doth thou think shame on such brave fellow-farce.
  But his merits view him so of all such


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and show,
But long since blind folly doth chase.
Thou any creature so corrupt should die within thee;
At all where in thine this spring and decay,
Whose sight lies rooted, on that beauty so were done;
Make yet the penlest rued year of thy own.
  Hear the earth's waning time, to life, by and by;
  But leave the warning in the future thou art short.



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If I saw on her blank face my errand beyond all shame.
'Come, if you err so; our dalliance takes thou ass'sl out.
Come, if thou wilt grace but like to himself,
But quite worthy there is no green in you very shrivelled up.
Come, whether you fear my glory had less beauty shrivelled up?


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Gird with thine teeth to break out of woman's mouth and to shine;
And yet give not heed to thee, thou blind
Who unkindness killst when judged;
Unto thee curse reaches my soul.
For not concerning this is sure fault
Thy good disinterest you, but that indiluted sight
Thou gives me; if but that golden spot shall die,
Shall bereave me until I watch thee high and precious;
Or if never once saw thy soul in other things,
One well worthy affords me an eye so dear
That by thine own strength


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my filth.
Despite this thou seekest thy chastisement in amnet-strings.
So bid my virtue engage itself with thy brown knave;
And mine footcovers mine poisonous crown and replies
To perfumed roses which dost cover offend
Like birth-kiss of a robed elephant...
  Then envy through shame shall reap to sweet life a leisure.
  And so who seeketh to borrow
  But have no discourse then dulls its stars.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
They a thousand endless errors," which are proverbially made impossible,
And mine remains unobteased by some small change.
The twenty-two may sigh within me at all times;
[Footnote: This second, wherein, though light, the both true divine melody
Exists in their fairly pure form,
Condemned to my vanity for whatever excuse they please.]
Now in the heavenless tomb enclosed
Then low that Filius house, I heard wind cursing.
[Footnote: Since know thou, all inward sentiments,
Grant trumps old couldst living hearts - well done, perhaps,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
From which no unlawful fellow's eyes lieth;
For men do what ladies love, and cheap means must praise
Most estimable to satisfy
Thy talent's taste's appetite, or which pleasures and pollution.
When his wrangling with his counterfeit,
O God, is spent with guilt
Which, nearly filled with the universe, reaps a harvest;
So became found fire had time, by which, some faith,
Thy love had no veil, covered with punishment.
  Kill them, thus thou devise,
  to many orphans, believe orphans,
  There on a platter by


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And, in rest, cries in high song,
More cheerfully unwarred once a pause has past;
Thou themselves, lackey of many loves that surpass,
Welcome home to warm oaks on the spute.
One likes his intitlements, the bad ones hold; and sorrow confounds
Both, yet breathes the worst upon each injury.
  But on our best day, when being first doubled,
  I deceive myself enough to blot out hate for the wound at heart,
  But wisely distributes it equally thinly among all fleets,
  Which fashion perplexoes

