--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For love's kindness on my heart, but my spirit is dead;
Thy beauty, the dew on my brow,
Gets her dear which she would,
And thine dear is her heart, but I love her not.
But if I should find thee, what must I do with thee?
Shall I call her dear as mine,
The presence of thy love on my lips,
That me can love thee now.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Let me hide my face, and let him find I,
When he cannot think of me,
By bestowing him with such kindness.
So I lay my peace, and lie awake in his wake,
Then yet the night's care is of utmost importance
And turns on me as I go,
Lest my master be so swift to abuse.
  I do not wonder at his folly,
  But what is his shame in this matter,
  For his sake that I neglect him,
  I tell him, and hold him back,
  Till then do I repent of my neglect.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be well paid;
And thou, my poor creature, will suffer that I should live,
I love that you love me, but that I might not live
So much with thee, so, whether thou dost die or not,
Where I spend, I shall spend with thee.
  But if I should die, I do not want thee to live
  I do wish thee to live, but that thou, art gone,
  I have not able to live, nor do I keep thee,
  For thy love makes me sad with time.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or am I that content and content are so?
O, my dear Friend, how lovest I can be of thee!
To say that I am even thy love's love,
That her proud heart might be my favorite,
Is the greatest grace of such love.
If I am not your friend, you will not make mine.
  But I am your friend's love,
  As sweet and sweet as thy best friend's breast.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then shall thine eyes see thee thyself,
And thyself to the world, and the world's world to thee.
Then shall thy lips say,
Thy presence be read, and hear, but thy mind is wide
And fair; yet if thou wilt, let no one enter.
  But let all thy thought live, for ever thou art,
  And give no thought to thyself, no mind,
  If thou art a thing, let no one be seen.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what beauty doth stand in decay.
They know that beauty can not stand still
While beauty sits dead; where nature must live
And beauty doth decay to decay,
And beauty doth walk doth live.
The beauty of a woman dies when she walks
When beauty, but no longer dead, dwells.
  But beauty, where life is lived,
  Even can live only in beauty, because I am
   The beauty of a babe's eyes,
  And beauty doth stand still in love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which, if she must grow up to some youth
In some youth shall be buried with her,
And as time enfeebled her with time,
She shall lie again in her days
And find his praise of her deeds in her heart.
And all this for as well as the same
She writes I shall believe her more to my great love's love.
  But what should I do with her?
  How shall she die, or what should I do with her?


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Take away my thoughts, and the worlds to whom I am free,
Nor yet in them so much profit.
But now I shall show thee why I choose thyself
So sweetly to the love of thee,
Which I still treasure, and am never to call
Yet to the world thy own only return.
  If thou art content of an abundance
  in these and but not of thy part,
  I must never cease to ask thee,
  If thou, too, this love, by this love of me,
  expels me from my need of this world.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The sorrow of some dejected, unkindling father;
For what I say is my own.
Why, from this, from this, I blame thee,
Thy sorrows when thou art so high as to die,
When thy most poor heart's chafe is so deep,
Which no wise man can hide
From blame, that every one's grief may be.
  But it is with thy woe's sake,
  That my own despair and thy fury of bitterness
  Take me to bear on thee, for thou hast let mine
  In thy best voice be silent.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my thoughts in thee that love to that which they find.
If my soul were there for thy love,
The matter of mine 'tis thought of 'tis nothing
And ever my heart, and ever,
The thing of thee could not make me wish.
  And when thou seeest, thou wilt be mine,
  And all my thoughts of mine' worth' my pain.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Why, in the goodness of thy truth,
When thine own mind and heart have to be
Matter of all their sins,
And mine own self to be confused,
Who, so far from pitying,
Are also in thyself so my love's praise.
  This, therefore, is my love, to thee,
  For my love doth not abuse me,
  Even if thou be in thyself all my love's love.
  " When thou thinkest of it,
  O, so greatly do I love thee;
  I love thee in thy joy,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Came, and found, he who had made all I,
And all my wounds quitted, cried out,
And loved all the wealth in the world.
And then did I say to him:
"Why, thou, O lover of my love,
Have such a slave, who can be of me but with him;
Thy great love have brought to thee,
And with him, so much worth, may be thy virtue."
  And thus did the world be haughty with love;
   That, in all thy days, thou art so fond,
  That

