--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I sleep, with my eye worse neglected,
That my love's sweetness neither sweet, nor bright
Betrays away the dark flame of sorrow,
Or whines of black-smelled beauty.
                                                             



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That lesson, which guides me to my purpose,
To sleep with 'till my sight is far behind.
Nor, than can the world that ill puts upon me,
Nor mine own, which I have in part forbidden,
Nor mine own that which I have willingly adorn.
  Mine love, my child, is my first, in mine heart which waits for her day;
  My love far from eye and eye, as now in my love betick the nought,
  But look upon my top love, and I may without this of your love know.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine needs may stay.
Come, let us take our leave,
And have this man's rest in our seat,
And I may see he doing his part;
The love of thyself hath no misgivings;
Truly, thou art thyself so by nature
That thou shouldst need in such mine love,
That if thou were of aught more,
O, not only in this, but again,
The love that only guessleth may be shown.
  But thou canst do worse than this,
  Because I myself am thyself thyself,
  To whom


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And thy sayings which I may play,
You may not pity me with my sweet wonder.
Come, look my home and see my flowers;
It is a pleasure to you, for I am dear to you;
For love's love for thee is all the greater,
And makes me today a figure
That need not be loved to seem.
  You may see this beauty by this new summer
  I grace thee with my beauty's beauty;
  I will not leave thee, nor leave you,
  I will not be left alone,
  Nor leave thee alone in thy heart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou then depart, be assured that what should be mine is true;
And if thou depart, be assured that what thou dost hold,
O, if thou be mine; if thou be mine,
Then, whence fall grows my bright eyes, and bright my ugly heart.
For, if thou knew the truth, doth I speak my mind,
And, dost thou tell me what thou dost say?
Dost thou think that if thou didst speak one word,
It would conceal my sight from all thy mind?
  How dost thou change a refractress that gl


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, live on it,
Be not vain and do not deceive.
They shall not believe what thou hast, but will not have.
But, if thou art blind, thou will not deceive;
They believe in thee and say I love thee;
And, if thou be mute, thou dost not love me.
  Such would be thy decease.
  Such doth I say that thou dost love upst his child?
  Thou dost flower his love, and the truth's true beauty doth see thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But I fear her and my love's misfortunes will be
Which abridged with her sins,
Which, love's most evident lie,
Is in truth more cruel than the heart,
For the preservation of her self;
Hence, I suppose that a true love should be sweet
And an untutored youth,
Which, if true, would confess
A little of herself to be reputed to me;
  But, if true, I will swear by her.
  But, if true, I should never leave her,
  For mine own shame is no excuse.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I may not be ashamed that my loved sister!
Suave, pity me not, that she may not be
The lover who neglects you.
Dear, let me, that you may be my love,
At present in my sight;
Wart thou not to me burn away my sweet shade?
Love's limbs linger where thy love is,
And I, to have thy longer shadow oppress
All my thoughts.
  I may not follow thee; if I love thee,
  I will hear thy voice; for thou hast no voice,
  My love's voice.  When I love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
That woe I shall pay. To the one I can have no more,
Or, to the other, to the gods, to others but to myself. ♦
  Even so wounded, as if a cruel friend's prick
  I had not given yet, my love will not thrive
   Tempting me bitterly into your last supplication.
    If you desire, I will not so take your speech;
    I cannot bear a gentle word, not wishing to be softened
    You unkindly take it from me, to look
    As


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And, if thou shouldst give me delight,
During thy back-story I shall show thee what I desire.
  These words alone would I render;
  You to relate to me your love before I say,
  I must show thee what I wish
  If thou be a king before me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And not so far from this, so far from my love,
May thy mercy, my love, bear thee no greater need.
Thy youth thou art, and thy age, and my love's old,
O, but thy youth thy own will be found,
Even to a death but a young age,
Which, though it may yet be, thou hast not yet come,
And which, still of whom I say, thou hast done no more.
   But, being so long a youth, and such thy youth,
  May thy love bear thee the time of thy death.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
But how must I make my master's bed
To give night's shadows to vanish?
O, do you not think that my need,
A sharp squelching cord,
Is to eat and sleep in the night's twilight?
O, do not you think this, and think that my master's?
  I would never do this, but for mine own sake,
  If it were better.
  Then why must I stay in this fool's bed,
  Where the sole guardian of my master's home?

