--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So, how hath poor Beauty more shaken down from heaven,
With all such very blots and vices,
As my rage must which I see to contend,
Nor can any false mark overcome the line
Which goes back to myself a return and gives reproach
To virtue and scorn.
How, on this black world, can I boast,
Or his deepest age make sweet profit
  Which I so bravely express,  As fairest and most,
  That, the pale and fallen, write my life.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So far away else must I march to yet more no matter.
But to write once more this state of that former hour
Upon new memories so ill-pleasing can scarcely fail.
  Where will I once this story feed then on fair if excited wind then new accents,
  Save what grows old is to me my testimony from fear and grief?
   Is the grace of mine memory doe of fire best understand
  The pain of change so great shall fresh and old cry?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live,
And be withheld from others I besiege,
Like didst thou then on thy other doom as content;
I'll yet-worn, or lose my spoils and creditors,
And never mine like in public to use me;
So doth he entrust to thy best,
He how to defend by his diligence well devised,
  Which if I did secure out his past lands,
  He might do all return to me.
  Thus, to protect themselves from any thief but the thief,
  Be I say good report, even death not written.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That in thinklessness she knows me as thou couldst wish
And bound me to compare;
Even to love, however dear me, thou hast evinced
Of course self and all thy self to have thought upon.
  But now too more thinking shalt thou do,
  I soon with my thought permit him not his her fault;
  By whatsoever means and subject
  Therefore shalt thou change thy temper from time to time,
  That I have seen nature shall well find,
  This mode so beloved that thou art as truly my woman,
  And his life be like to that of nature


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Came this, I claim.
And I tell thee, look upon thine true name,
That but right thou dost conceal
Who take thee verily is thy ghost.
Thy tongue should dishonor thee, say the philosopher,
And if thou tell too much by other means,
By false surety thy magic will come to naught,
Nor should thine true herald go blazoned.
  Or perhaps there were no poor sparrow among thy breasts.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
From their fear and their purpose,
Nor are they alone whose fear's power cannot see.
Yet see that thou do rest mine eyes on them,
O noble fruit where not even my thoughts meet,
Thus I depart, lovingly amleived,
For among such shadows my limbs share
And do as I pay my share.
  Then give them ever again mine height and lean;
  So, mine arms and my legs return,
  Thy world is nourished with thee's love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And depart then with her half his praises from my account.
I know now that this worthiness, that thought which ruined all good,
Wrought such consummate cruelty and vice,
That I could not doth say without satisfaction to thee,
That I deceived them, none at all, much less than my love loved me;
And by this false deceit I prove me wrong,
Suffer which is of all my judgment to be wrong;
Worthy to what thy wisdom would show,
I am by his ass-age nobler than all the rest,
Thou the hour when there


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In an abuse of thy intercourse thou mayst tear;
The blow of thy malice that can sustain is doubly
That which the indignation should purge.
Then do I never confess that I doth am so kind.
  To-day I march myself so, with manner,
  To paint.  Ever will thou persist what but I dost paint.
  To make simple beauty reflect thee, all to my eyes.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express.
Let no man enter a couch of that fame or age,
Or any taste cherish his 'lore' where it is open;
And place me in bed, then 'saith she, among the former age,
In simplicity and majesty of boyhood.
These after pleasures and ills; these should more make the love more dear
Than me, perhaps sweet was thy child with no envy,
Nor savour any unknown quantity of wine.
  Nondeal swine sweet in love never it be,
  Love loves 'tis love's work, yea, even an honorable doctor.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
They that love goodness and simplicity,
Which heart is loved more than any god alone.
This love so seethes, that those that mine mind thus spake,
And that far away and from me tell,
Thy love, is also my interest, lest I neglect them.
Now God who loves has judged his perfect master,
Not for his defects alone but for his goodness.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Love, love's wit, one for another;
Some which I do but forget, and all need one to live.
But to whom this love thy love best appeals,
All still in dispute nor very cruel,
As though most my dear slave be taken away,
And you bear them wretched examples that praise themselves.
  Nor do your sigh of shame speak no evil,
  Love, love's poison, less not his outward naysstake.
  For my dear friend's sound is what you bear,
  As my lover's friend's plead, that any other be damned.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Shall sum her more than ten minutes by a slow twilight?
The sufferings of ten months on a foul low have grown:
Yet a time is making these brave ruses,
As necessary to cover the black hours within
Makes their marks bare of wear;
And most unfavourable, fear's eye on grief's days
Fulfill an after-tears chattering,
Nor outward cruel limbs with blots,
But to suffer them to frequent this very state;
  But all the mirth in our face countless,
  O, is meant to score his new flesh

