--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be my shame and to make me feel
Thy sorrows, thy sorrows, thy sorrows, thy sorrows,
And I am no longer, nor do I live,
For thou, my love, and my heart,
Thy self, my love, and my heart,
And my heart's beauty, and my beauty's beauty,
  I love thee, and I love thee,
  And I love thee, and I love thee,
  And I love thee, and I love thee,
  And I love thee, and I love thee,
  And I love


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To love, to live with my heart's end?
But that heart, that loves me,
Is not the only one that gives me pleasure,
And I love it with my heart's end.
But I love it with my heart's end,
And it gives me pleasure, not with my heart's end.
  But I love it with my heart's end,
  And it gives me pleasure, not with my heart's end.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And mine to you shall be, for ever I am yours.
And now, then, let me say that I am a man of my own,
And, if thou art willing, let me give thee my own.
  But, then, let me say that I am not a slave,
  And, if thou art willing, let me give thee my own.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy desire, and more than enough am I,
Thy self-will, and more than enough am I,
That to be a better woman,
Is to be a worse slave than thou,
That to be a better wife,
Is to be worse than thou,
That to be a better husband than thou,
That to be a better wife than thou,
  That to be a better wife than thou,
  That to be a better husband than thou,
  That to be a better wife than thou,
  That to be a better husband than thou,
  That to


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy eyes may be filled with tears,
And your soul's eyes, which are not filled with tears,
Are not filled with your own, but with thyself.
Thy eyes, which are not filled with tears,
Are not filled with thyself, but with thyself.
  Then, behold, I say, thou art mine,
  And I will make thee mine,
  And thou shalt be mine, and I will make thee mine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they are not blind to the sight of the eye.
They see, they see, they see, they see,
And when they see, they are all but in their sight.
But when they see, they see, they see,
And when they see, they see, they see,
And when they see, they see, they see,
And when they see, they see, they see,
And when they see, they see, they see,
  And when they see, they see, they see,
  And when they see, they see, they see,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might say, 'My love, my love, my love,
I am the most dear of all,
And that my love should be so strong that I should not die,
That my love should love me so that I might be able to live,
That my love should love me so that I might live,
That my love should love me so that I might live,
That my love should love me so that I might live,
That my love should love me so that I might live,
That my love should love me so that I might live,
That my love should love me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy mind's eye, that which I may not see,
Is a prey of thine own mind,
And so am I with thee, that thou, my eye,
Thy tongue, my heart, may see
And so shall I see thee, and I shall be
With thee, and thou shalt see me.
  I am with thee, and thou shalt see me,
  And thou shalt see me, and thou shalt see me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The most cruel, most vile sentiments of my mind.
Thy sweet tongue, though sweet,
Will make me the subject of many sad words,
And thus will I, when I have been slain,
And when I have been brought to death,
And then, if thou wilt not love me,
Then thou shalt love me as thou lovest me.
  But if thou wilt not love me,
  Then I will be dead, and thou shalt live.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And so I should not love thee,
For I love thee in thy heart.
But, though thou art in love, yet I do not love thee,
For I love thee in thy love,
For I love thee in thy love,
For I love thee in thy love,
  And thou, my love, I love thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And love of thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
Thou love of thyself, and love of thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of thyself thyself thyself,
And love of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And so, in her beauty, I see
The sight of her breast with her eyes,
And I hear her crying, "My dear babe,
Thy breast, thy womb, thy womb, thy womb,
And thou, my dear babe, my dear child,
Whose breast I love so dearly,
That thou shouldst have the beauty of my breast,
And my love should make thee so rich
That I should be so proud of thee,
That I should have thee so happy,
That I should have thee so happy,
That I should have thee so happy,
That

