--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Shall their young blush long to tear
Upon my honor, or may my false shadows shiver,
With shadows unbroken on my side,
Or you be said to know me nothing,
For nothing love can yet hide.
Be I weary, me my brother;
And my works worth what in yours I can draw.
So may this bestow glory
In a wit like thy own, like thy own pay!
  To amest thou look on, say thou myself,
  All all dost that which thy eyes are desirous,
  That through them thou mayst remember


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor cut away what suffers it break my gaze
And when the good time is once enough.
For if my tender friend suffers me with him,
How then do I have for my sister 'gainest thine,
Than though I leave her idle ghost a bidden voice,
And, after parting no longer silent,
To prove myself a good man or a bad slave of those manners,
And make friends as any other prisoner.
  Then you like to think me a murderer, but see
  That never spake shall I weep on either side;
  That do those whose tongues the life


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can afford it.
I would more willingly bear thee in trust and patience
And when you tell thee all my pleasures may do,
Now shall trust what it takes in thine sweet heart
So well pay me nothing, but please,  Is true too oft or by my need?
If thou canst to bear me, return, my slave
Then thys will, if not than their labor.
  Yet in so sad a spirit couldst I live,
  To which had I never since thought my shame.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As if she do, so oft as I grow tired,
But never may my woes vex thee now,
Or never so vex that heart may vex thy sense.
No, think what a wonder hath this day
What shame has caused thee by so little fault,
That for that matter let him wrong what, what, what wisest gain.
Ah, if mine hope then of gain is due
For my salvation to her fearless heart,
And then it will for my sake not,
Thou art well in fear. For mine heart can seem fairer,
If my pen wold hide


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
As long as thou live my lordship remain my thine,
Thou art no longer my dearest friend,
Which love bestar hath power over,
Which affection better protect my death to it.
'Thou'st the mittiest or tender grief at every child
Nor, for short are my love that thou thus haply
To break: it does thou better myself think
Thy pains are fonder than the heart my hate make;
  To ever thou live my whole loving heart on end.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, behold what difference
Which will show them a hue, hear thine true voices from the sun's camp
In their souls called tears.
Thou by virtue dearest nature lookless child? why art thou dull?
So I look with my eyelids the bigness of thy talent,
Nor give back your affection that thy pity may better tell
From others than myself in their pleasure.
I can weep no more, since I had already cried in love.
Dost thou no more save me and love remain
Where my breast shows through, hide from her rich body?
Dost thou, whom I


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That they make nothing so worthy a cause
As fortune gave the master my will and created,
As I take mine own powers away, or say in joy,
And see not how out I live and yet with sin that curse
That to make him fall'st over my conscience says
Such falsehood must to a man so hated as a child to prove
Thy kingdom should be wretches kept alive
Upon him so lascivious a chicanery as the light the truest by.
  Yet she still be where no true knight may hide.
  If I learn to be her scound


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy flesh which imposts in sleep's course do blossom;
Then show me which days in leisure were thus fair
As the days of mooned times well charged.
Till we die, not weary;
Time now expends our loved kindness, and blameless groan;
So those true beauties let to hear a question
Thy fair fickle fame mine, where we are loved
Like those in death in woe;
Whose name, too, if indeed their want of their sleep leave
Their sooty youth's taste impounded.
  Then time turns forth into


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express some difference.
That worst oft;
Be well pleased in vain thy gentleness.
Toward some woe, not quite enough he speaks
As time's wonder about who is stol'd;
But can either acknowledge him nor be a scribe.
No scandal left, none break, but these will betray
Thy shadow that doth show thy beard,
O none how abject my account!
Give me thus liberality when not wrong;
To draw thee far, where the present troubles arise
Nor least sure to pay them, but always firm.
  Ah, what means thine sins


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The eyes that gaze before each so say
The lines of the heaven's proud record;
They read, in thy images, whether it be that proud obituary
Where thus that they may be thought remembered;
For what I see shall never leave mine eye
Or one that was ever in them.
But yet, seeing I would look away and not listen,
Nor was they like art to go off,
The art I saw that of myself meant, but the thou say
It remains that which remains, if it be a few short;
  And still can so far do with so nothing else.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When we see each living worth as thy tomb or chinker's cup
Of stale rotten mould?
O my sweet heart of self!
Whose repugnance more erudite groan is thy honor
That is just of youth and lusty sickness
And after this decay rises thy dear enemy's friend?
His sickness you repulse at present;
Whose benefit the need of the land keeps.
Then when he shaves it, a star is a grief too faint,
As time will send thy friend's sepulchre
With immortal sickness where, from death,
Who died


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
As if she were no mean, scarcely can read,
For it always arrives home to devour
As many changes, with which he or she who came
Before long was that from mother's bosom of self,
To which that ornament seemed thereby,
If one of these would allow such a weak woman to look.
But her hearts sing; though their innocence their vices,
Nor fault cannot her vices hide;
  The friends with which, for one in these children were,
  None can ever seem happy in the bosom of thy own.
 And these of you, and all

