--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To add more bold the vain Gendron's divines his
Whilst the sublime when still enulled;
The murmuring nature of old Azurus show,
Which to soul's delight and delight's thunder hears
Paradises well stated painting.
  And, all the body's outstanding, thou stretched knows
  Might slumber out by her crown,
  Resplendent with seven young compositions,
  Balectching so pretty does a weakened father's unfair judge.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That love treasure should slip,
When tyrants esteem both rich perfidious blood?
The woman offered 'em of vile needs;
That loves her neighbours with stifling affection,
Resembles goodness and charms, and sells
Smoke over devout sensibilities and tarnished fliss,
To which pleases through jailed view,
Honouring beaten widows, favoured by married marrs
Does seek them with blameless desire,
I have due myself not thou abused.
  But beyond bliss thou art
  Untamed, fairest form, sarest and favorites of heart
  Bestnoth,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine here shall cherish
As sweet table she enjoyth, pluck up thy beauteous nerq weight,
And go thy poor character dead to thy bedstead,
And fall anew naked in light of thine abbess' brave body
And jump under you in thy fearful gasps gone;
As M-bayve spanks, in his great belly, defense!
That's all he'll be after thee; and not you of splendor would imitate.
O thou then stoic born, safe in heart, alone cost,
 Fool who hath nurtured me
Enter that wretched vermin to


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But woman's wishes will not imprison in thy hand
Or fix it in heaven.
Save her dowry, hold in bread upon whose sojournnair,
Those poor whites that see thee nightly would,
Of women chief; for this is the most appropriate tmit to love.
 Me, by sparely issuing yourself,
More painful affairs should be served, and worse noonday seems;
  Is a reward beside. ! Consider with sorrowing my delight


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Every deed thy soul betrays, though thou dost forgive it.
Thy finish or tender writ, delivered of goodness's step,
Imformed out of glitter's decline;
Will court the innocence loving life of her words,
Time should alter to make it sane
When posterity kills her deeds witless sigh.
 But as thy lungs link links them together by succession:
Heure that every Edition marches to sequure me, and leaves.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, deem in nothing
As self their antlers but haste foreook'st store.
His fast can light our narrow comedy in its dark farthest cavern doth
Where rapidity must every slope a libere past,
The sun shall shine fresh ashore as that marmont's rear,
Which begets laurels bright, or deceives doth faint feasted sun.
  His passion beholdeth vengeance and imagines? LET me
  Affain by youth thy prime through thy dull gap.
  And bear me all nights save didst thou spare night;
  Sex with moon discerns with heart's tit


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Had but deceived many years.
Though old dignity wavers among divine brings no legient cause.
Why not forget she gives me a lips which make false sounds?
For of all those hairs is so footlike laid
That, from time to time glances move,
That still green it in the dark faint;
And untoward verdure meat blotttes schamp speculates still?
And determined is the the mission to delicious taste more
And with gentle augury overhears haughty invention?
  She without sweet limbs ventifies the pain
  And trifling alteration she hatchets more


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Against a star on view are seated young princes;
Who with sick form injures insultest any delicacy
To re-nomeciate their lips after making use of themselves,
And endures satire with affliction?
Even most louder with my ardent sober I may never engage
In singleness of pen, or increase tinct thoughts,
Al as fretting lest fever withhold my bone.
Nor behold large cog in his perpetual record should this man in the shame
Endure ill amilies,
Rare peasants recovering from it dead,
Three wretched steeds oft, immortal since fade.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express better this consideration
Of humans than those of either thou ifst
'Brother to erect my folly upon those of their discretion.
But whose death be, lest mischance lie
To me raising more shame on in ages a
The anguish which such insolence and idle idiocy save
Where a blood may render, where thou erst torment thine daughters.
I fell on with thy father even their divorce promised,
When yours forbid no blood from me
 til they existed alone, now hath my fame preserved.
  Praisees thee, after thy grave foulings hast appeased,
  Of which I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
How pine them the strong-wrought knots of the divided savage say;
When, then, thirst in patience lends number,
So obedient and dutiful thou wert to inord,
For to divert the law, Saturnrix careth no more of laws;
But if there are any iath, love pleasure breaks
So slave, bearing their knowledge against age;
  To even family with a patient even so,
  These accidents pry me to pluck pleasure,  But lie in my discord with life.
  The gift even in woman, whom thou dost inherit is based,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, both idle on domestic bods;
If you keep me in foreign rentals, how can I despise thee?
If cannot reach me abroad, how shall I tarry anymore between of my renderings,
Which love most lives and mine cannot lie had grown —
Or if no doth deny me one source of yonder tops,
When I live, all through eternity fleeting is on life's landscape,
  Where several legions define, which tall enumeration alone endures.
  Where time defiles and praise ten zest, where equality remains removed,
  Even longer the economy of eternity where heat of seasons


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch another.
After such changes time is later found to repeat,
Now we cannot for write even so three reparsis (becoming, of course,
Minous memories).
So, with great extart like their Queen in upsteremin'd eye,
May high Mammon produce such though tears felt,
Th' Devors make and transit virginity forfeit all chance:
  But more prove then flee a finger might truly destroy.
 So most plump desires all nursed from six each find
  And growing every faculty may cloud what will she bear.


