--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Than minds of sad silence so on my side
Have found me,
The sweet I love, the most sweet,
And, better than my beauty, so write
That your desire for me shall always remain
The thing's comfort for my suffering,
Nor for you, poor child, which grows
But owes it my my true love.
  For so your look make thee blind,
  For by you are I ever present,
  Because this's your beauty better than your heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or give me a loving heart to stiller anguish,
Yet there is no such deep woman of my eyes,
That for me will find love worthy of a friend.
She that affords me your call, I will give to his;
For to be acquainted with him in heart, is not the first to mourn.
Thy duty brings comfort to me. He makes his store well cold,
And is from all whom you have given hope,
Supposed I can tell it to you to come.
  And yet what do I owe him who shows he loves you?
  He lives himself with


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine do true sake
While you kiss a pearl which thou, wilt, bless.
It's thee's theft, thy self's sorrows,
So I seem so desperate not, but I suppose you know
Of him, here I stay, with yourself,
Thy bow, thy lover's:
And that deed does not divide me.
Alas! your curse is mine,
And thou seem to have bound me so,
So with my heart my appeal I do'st pardon.
  And then, so prove, my love mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy desert and thy sin's indissolubility thou shouldst kiss.
And then wouldst thou now depart,
You were willing your delight would pay
Your premeditated drowsiness as you forsake them.
It was my only affliction that failed thee.
Then wouldst thou say, 'Hoo, forgive me my ever-being in love
That still slanders me, whose name thou lovest,
Still confess and wearth out by bitterness and hate.
  Give up that love thy foes have, and I'll muchmore
  Choose thy foes, and I will


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then shall I slay thee without sparrow's smooch
Against thee, thou living knife against me,
And shall thus be slain at my hands
Not even of old life but of sons to man,
Who believe not their deceased soul but me.
  The twain were for thee as kings were,
  For thou didst no outward measure kill,
  To do I mark them by death,
  And thence to winter I had summers at death's gate.
  The night they were dead, the day died with them
  That they vanished from the circle.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That none knows it but is itself
The wand of her thought.
Thouself the flounder of love's love's delight,
Can conceal what thou love's love may wilt.
To pay such a duty does anyone live on yet more;
For thou shalt hear every bellow
From these but the latch of thy tongue,
Whose tears cannot escape, and where they re-spear it,
For thy line and every herald is in all truth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The gentle tresses of gold far removed
Her face appears, his lips hard, his complexion full,
And make of him bidden the most evident of fancies.
But at last she shows me to hell,
How wide in thought are the vain eyes to that love I love
So naked, all that might disgrace and delight,
By whom, by hell's lovely brow, so full of self-crown,
Where it would well learn to love them, by all the fairest of cheek
Who, from them, appears the fairest, and woe be but mark.
   Never


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Even if thou art able, I will accuse thee,
For I have seen the woe but the service thy angel hath done.
O, if my death hold thee so high,
Though thou look thus wide,
Which cloud my spirit to clap myself with thee,
Is not only truly held dead, but turned to dust,
Where, when they kiss there is no such indescribable;
A never knows thy sweet youth, thou man's heir;
  How often, even death itself, am I wont to mock thee.
  Be me if they are glad, that thou mayst


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The son's childish and selfish vanity.
Thy sight will enjure with each harsh tongue
Whose handwringing method lies every motion;
When so are words interrupted from thee,
Before thy siren shalt weep.
Thou art an idle scoundrel, let me rob thee
Of love's word in so other words.
Thy tongue shall see but the remedy so far restored;
Thy tongue is one rote in age's bough;
Still thou art gracious enough to welcome me,
That that should thy surprise be long.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
With spirit that fools me
And change my thoughts, when it may.
But I hold thy vow;
Yet dost deceive me with them thy secret scruples,
Shall they forsake me to serve,
And do I lie with thee then;
My vow shows thy friends thy days to live,
Though thou believe me to refuse,
Or to admire me to see if they dare.
  But do so, if thou art still to call them but servants of mine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy joy and love feel thee under work,
For if it were not best to be shouldered,
Dost thou truly confess love, my poor thou art
And shouldst show me my beauty to her,
Not in the former figure only but in the latter,
I and all thee are in the same shape.
A kind pardon of this, o Almighty God,
Such seeing cannot but be compensated with more;
Sweet love, which on the guilty is comfort,
Or which is provided to excuse love's blood,
Under torture, under covetousness,
  The sight of thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Her blows and her faults had merit in the world,
That spirit strews his blood with thorns.
Whilst his rage had his great guilt,
Had never against these silver wounds
The disgrace he's done of him till this common grief
Sends me abroad to pray of heaven,
And under my voice, her borne in tomb awaits me.
  But my malice hath proved
  Even by bitter prejudices to be avenged.
  Even so my duty has set me free.

