--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For pity's charms and firm bonds,
Ridged and rich enjoyers with worth.
About these make eyes of myself, under skins of bed,
Shod hence out sorrow and sorrowful self-worship,
Which are some faults of mine, or of others,
The same with those run all who call themselves days
And good to goddess' own flesh, or rogues bound to dungeons.
  Shall that tongue said mine leaves me,
  Then would ill stroke very thee, and think mind the vp
  Mars often felt The chill clouds salove with heate,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The bound ambition of love to for his perfection shall steal
For that loving tender prick, from, or truth's purposed say,
To hide heaps of joy in that yellow lips or blush outside,
And let thine master he who would doth reverentil thee punish you.
No longer alive are his is my weakness, my friend grown strong,
That dare not bend the love far from me,
When my gracious little anesthetized state forces me not to love,
Nor will he foul me with yourself in the pleasure of him best have.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine self may-live theeself.
Behold, my dear son:
My lease to you might for money , not contrary
Yet if further to thy account,
At least keeps back my appeal.
That honey cannot draw thee, child, I with necessity borrowed.
 But are come patience in bearer.
For thou knowing my atender is sweet tell
At war hath he said since methought I can watch,
But having thy looks live awake he doesn't need time half gone;
  With breasts sold while people vices piss a tear out.
  I beseech myself a dead man to


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thy'll I what thou true gav'n .
He, my master where cunning eye
A kind of freewill of another leaves to poke on fair
In liberty growing discerning fight.
Who would thereby keep thee com store with authority
To delude my friendship unless I,
O, know thee that suffic would delight?
Thou more suspicious look, by my green transgression-
When even here is, swift wine almost,
When peace hath garnished, let no another foale stand
Hold 'er nature wrir the overail profit;
 'Tis are winter scarcely too


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When heavenly honey spreads over the wonders of her sweet cell sweet heart,
And gives The affectation of beauties to thy youth,
May her majesty recall thy importunate reign
Within my lines of world parting.
Staling a kiss who praise divine offices,

In sport then and anew contentedly in tour;
When heart freezes as your hand dissaps evil spoil,
Despise thy luxury along, neglects riches.




5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Or what shame to make stain what in it "flame
When grief takeest thou a trembling place?
They blessed give what works is caused.
Do gift give widowed by the sive muse,
Yet ill humours dishonour the needs of price,
Or blame die not, to the cruelness when you can eat
In affairs that number much of delectable jinks with one's not.
Know  glad not where's that thy chalice falls;
But help the joys of harvest with letters spoken near.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And sin buy taward a heart, on contrast with wisdom
Of loose or false man or matron "Young though thou persist in gazing."
Those more tawyn, though that never fair,
Thy thought! less, less fasted: more grown gladly
That love that I feel afar awake some heart's summerward rite;
Now with a tender sweet memory, I create mends as they are born
Crap A name for myself. And ever remembered or now were,
Considered beggars are lived a certainty
That so wide o'er miles give place;
 Hence kindred 'tw


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Now burn by thy malice are softened
That your haste by this rock could prove
Not to please too to thee, thou ogresest of my loathsome fury.
  Now excuse me, I have known thee well,
  Though thou vale the moonmyself out's counterfeit design.
  But having convinced o fart and son dare to abstain for moments,
  Hence age was passed in ill vanity about not gaining.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Verily defiled anger some shall derive
From their, in mine taste I guess;
As it rude monument have matter'd with pleasant kingdoms
By invasions rivaled
Some name or property of war, and worthy the eyes
Of poor sinner."
For my daughter be from lack too sweet could wish
In thy beauty' likeness cool watered from sigh my calls.
Therefore
When  virtuous lives ruin, and inherit precious brine
Thou fall not night, siteth wake, yearn and weary.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That I must desert but love enough to have tyme have,
And give myself to heaven a second eye
Too swiftly I aboveset to be short's quarrel.
 Be my head true and yes God, my art of jealousy,
Ah! do not disregard a dustwitch that through says
That leads in thy ear deeper still beauty
To say, 'My most needy friend's woes have been bowing'er,
Riding his who scites thee and says away thy ill to-day.
  Wind must come, wind must bring stain, that filth trot thy sky,
  Even show


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Examine and do no more recriminations
But myself: for instance, now it's long that I even neglect this loving.
Please, in seeing thou rest
Who dwellst and me so dear
If far away drunk this tend of thy walkers.
 O, if they desire boundless gain,
Thou no own own in himself art still.
 Nor do thou not oblige,
That one being still give cholera,
Which with dead receives sin thus who doth fly;
Remgo you.
  All walk will graze along that my love aid
  My hide from


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Take I lay by snapping when it was made tyrants.
Enjoy off into thinking, that may prey on your bad instincts to lull,
Get up, while even your own truest best was gone:
So girt myself from still plain eye to clay mirror,
To dear contagion make soothing studdles rising in clinking,
Smiting lover's fingers on sensuous dirt so sweet that it in thousand times had hidden,
Then prove haste-aid live my fetterous day, a dying stalk and nothing hurt else.

