--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy heart so oppressed with grief,
That it must be taken away, and in it be gone,
And that which was so tender and tender
Is now gone, and in me shall live.
  But if I love thee, thou art still my dear,
  I love thee so much, that I cannot love thee.
  I love thee so much, that I cannot love thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it is to torment me in all the world
And to keep my own self in it,
And to break it down, I shall find
And make the world, in all my misery,
To be a slave to the world,
And to bear me, in my own place.
   But my heart is my master's,
  And I shall be no slave to him,
  And he will not let me live.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
In my sayings I may live, and not thy.
Yet, if I die, what I shall have
My fortune to do, for that I have not yet been
Thy name's heir.
  Then, if I do not live, what I shall have
  My fortune to do, for that I have not yet been
  Myself's heir.
  I will, then, to make a new heir,
  To make myself the heir of my own,
  To make myself the heir of all my fortune.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And, when thy love is so strong,
That she, with her heart,
May well her heart bear thy heart's burden.
When thou art strong, with thy will,
Thy love is strong, and in her love's will
She shall bear thy heart's burden,
And shall she bear thee's heart's burden,
When thou art strong, with thy will,
And with thy will, with thy will,
  Whose love's sweetest heart hath thy sweetest heart.
  And that which thou loveest,
  Shall bear thy heart's burden,
  And


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For, thou art the body of thyself,
Thy soul is thyself, thyself thyself thyself,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
And in thee, the rest is, the rest is,
  And in thee, the


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when they see, what they see, they see
To their true beauty, to their true love.
But they have not seen what thou art,
And yet thou art not the one that is in thy sight.
O, what dost thou see, that thou art not in thy sight?
O, thou art not the one that is in thy sight,
For thou art not in thy sight, but thou art in thy mind.
O, thou art not in thy sight, but thou art in thy mind.
  But thou art not in thy sight, but thou art in thy mind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might see me a slave,
And that she might be a witness
To her fair, and see me my true love.
But I am not deceived,
That I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might see me some untutored youth,
And that she might be a witness to her fair,
And she might be a witness to her fair,
  And that she might be a witness to her fair,
  And that she might be a witness to her fair,
  And that she might be


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have my will to forgive thee, and I forgive thee not;
And if thou wilt do me wrong, then my name shall be
The one of thee, the most holy name,
And my sins shall be forgiven thee,
And my name shall be thy shame.
  Then shall my shame, thy shame, thy shame,
  Be your name, thy shame, thy shame,
  The truth that thou didst forgive me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My pleasure in thee.
Do not make me make myself sad,
For love's praise, though it be thy own,
Will not praise thy own worth,
For it is your own, and mine.
O, that thou wilt see my love's eyes,
And my love's lips with thy heart,
And love's lips with mine, that thou mayst see
The true beauty of my love's eye.
   But in thy eyes thou art not that,
  For thy love's eyes are thy eyes,
  And my love's lips are mine,
  And my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And, when they see me wrong, I say,
That I love thee, that thou art their friend,
For in thee they will love me, and I will not be
To love thee.
  And in thee I am like a poet,
  For I am in thy heart, and in thee,
  And I love thee to be a poet.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, what art thou that thou dost say?
O, what dost thou say that thou dost love?
O, thou that I love, I do not love,
O, thou that I love, I do not love,
Nor do I love thee, nor do I love thee.
Thy love is not mine, thy love is mine.
  I love thee, thou that I love thee,
  I love thee, thou that I love thee,
  I love thee, thou that I love thee,
  I love thee, thou that I love thee,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
To all these who do love her,
The happy thing is, that she shall live,
And in her life, that she may die.
  But the love of my love, I say,
  Is so long as I live,
  That it cannot bear to bear to see
  Where she lives.  But if I do love her,
  I must love her with love's love,
  And I must love her with love's love.

