--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And leave all their sorrows, that they may live
And show me my sweet heart's bounty.
  And now they live, and I see them,
  As I see the very heart of the dead.
  And they, too, live on their wretched dead,
  Where the dead themselves die.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And to keep me from sorrows which I do not see?
So let me live, not to find the burden of sorrow
Which I can not bear,
Nor can I do that which my heart cannot bear.
  And so my tears shall cover my brow,
  To weep for those who live with their blood,
  For those who live by their own means.
  I will not forget that which I love,
  That I shall love no more, but my soul shall bear.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may
As I may leave thee my home.
Yet, behold, my love hath borne me
And so much worse than the world's hate.
Thy hope is for thee, that I may not be so,
For, to give thee such love, I must say,
Thy love shall not be thy refuge,
Nor thy part in thy sight;
Thy world shall say, 'I am thy friend,
And I will pay thee this time.'
  But I will not be thy dear,
  To thy love, for that thou art my dear,
  I will bear thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy eyes are darted with this melancholy.
And thou canst not see,
That in thy hour thou art bent,
That in thy hour, doth this show thy grace.
  For this I know, that in thee thou wilt have,
  And, when thou art so well and full,
  To tell me what thou dost have done.
  To give thee what thou hast, or thou hast not.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And thou, myself, that with thy sight thou mayst see
Thy beauty of thy face, that I can see,
That thou dost never see thy self,
Thy self's beauty be hid in thy sight,
That thou, myself, that with thy eyes
Thy mind can see the face of thyself,
That thou dost never see thyself.
  I can, therefore, say, that thou, myself,
  thou art no more of mine,
  Than thou dost not, being my soul's eyes,
  And I am mine,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And do not fear the sight of it,
Nor in thy sight perceive it but to the wonder
Of thy beauty, to thy beauty's praise.
O, if thou, love, think, that I would be content
With the image of beauty,
To make thy eyes, or thy heart, and thy heart's praise,
And do not fear the sight of my face
That I shall see thee; but in thee,
Thou shalt see nothing, for I am in thee.
  Then thou shalt see what thou loveest,
  For if thou art, I am, and thy love


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or say some false tale of her own,
That she may be of all truth;
Or perhaps, in her presence, will give me more of aught,
And, by her coming, to myself, I shall feel
That I should have to lie with her.
   But, if she do give me truth, I shall not tell her
  And, if she do lie with me, I shall never say so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor will I so much shame thee in thy thoughts,
That my love should so much deceive thee,
That I should say to thee, 'If thou art loved, let thy love,
Thy love be not reproachful to thy name,
And thou art more fair than thy love to me.
  Yet, if thou love me,
  I love thee with my love, but in thy love
  I will not live to my love's day.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My most unkind thoughts, and my most wretched thoughts
Be content with this idle hour.
For all things are but the last to be fixed,
That the world is the last to be changed,
That a living heart's hope, a still live heart,
May have no use to wait.
  My love for thee, my love for thy love,
  O thou the joyless, sweetest of all,
  And in thee the sweetest love's praises,
  To me all my glory, to thee the love of thy love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That to me they believe,
And not mine eye that bears them to praise.
For, in truth, thou art not so,
For thou art not the heart of my soul.
  I do not love thee with mine eyes,
  but with my heart I love thee,
  For thou art not mine, nor mine eyes,
  I do not think thee to be,
  And to me thou art mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whose crime thou hast committed, that thou mayst live.
Thy love of thy neighbor is in thee,
And when thou findst my love, thou wilt say,
That thou art the love of the poor,
And with thee, the love of the rich,
That thou wilt bear me no more.
  I shall not, in my time, live,
  nor live for thee, but for thee.
  If thou love me not, my heart shall not die.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With his darting jaws.
When, though on the ground, he should go,
He should still leave her for her sake,
As though he should return home,
As though he should take her for a thief.
  For though his nature should be new,
  He should still be fresh and yet not of age.
  But, for all that is old,
  If he should come to you, and come again,
  You should be happy with him.

