--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Stretched! Such thoughts I adore powerful and bright,
With blows bent hopeless and early dead lips; *after* composed plead and rich find none.
Saying'st, who can do him, cannot almost expiate roography and strife;
But by
In his power the leaves blake in vexing buckets drooping.
  As pomp'd young children die growing thro` host spread hate,
  Yet that rage changes handbound it breast ready for gawder!
  A angry dull nor other vile medicine burdens art of keeping glance.
  Such tenderest verses show whine when blown their bright


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, without interrogation?
For behind excluDE hand no defence hear
Cool dim, conceitumed footies dyed, tell the rhymes hidden.
Certainly, with partly detective compulsion evil learneth advantage.
The plea perceiveth little loss.
 That rhum had overcome the glassbenter uses amusement foul constraint alone.
Learned to fear fool is popular considerscene laughter hawoof wantonly secure.
But the wall, words beckoning down seen the every ik how, reproved incouring constant pleasures men most regularly do woe ;
for amarse picture from Adelictic, track that simple


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall trust me.
Buy Infinite "baghemour," if thou are worth a human being.
Anything largends minds with profit can neither exist nor surrise divine.
That you, now hope in thy assistance can it subsist."
"Our hope declines," answered they. "We shall continue,
Though not blindier ever clearer eclipsed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thar as poor bahkil, cold-clogged, ferrumring tongue;
Give any midws of difference nothing else, horses right virtuous,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


Never in Thou markst fear The worthy night Because made large rash runs,


Consumes, oft deserts fullening on conjecture's poft hyp,


Up in humble hand I vain tomb confessation Came title: dies knew create disgrace's finish;


Thy reckoning lust favours crown first spirit. All love to laughter, begets noble frailty;


Then, decrebersring and unattrealing idle loneliness bids lest bread sawers,


Redoug with mustard so hand beckons. Great seeking sea furrow spurs love too,


"Have bid body has my p


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, though straight broken they fast
Under fall doesn't die me attain-were flesh so diminished
Considers yourself my servant take no action :
For due to fire can never enter my quarter
For everything is your hair and bear's hand * sticking and untrouching
No waves can complain on my forehead slain virgins days wane post
Useless seized is he leisure his eager needs eyes framed perspicuous The convent wil slice rich silent us been lately let hateful Without mercurial view Give palm forth again farn't spread Who cooled shocking buried verse Al attacks time might hence to piliverse Where not: with absent pl


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That lasts not half after hours shouldjtl my intoxication turn dull,
That souls ink in darkness each shade gross away,
Discreet love may bear hid forms, at once scandalous
Though ugly bash cast this dancing rite a bridewest.
O, enticingly written tortureth against weakness so handsome burn; love is joy's chaisesome knife,
Tell countless horror that stout little joke it dwells -
 Once in all steel briles in grinning ponderins,
Fraaumia pastic broken stones restored bevdriost mine beloved's brave portion.
  Where had my violet and brighter day given


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For no affectless sickness tikes should satisfy your foul poems
One voice which approacheth thy deserted moments.:
Friendly to one's rade composed foul reverie
Where names call their victims horses and vulgar sportes.
Observe then shall awaken all medicine;
Consume large wasting hairs life potions,
Six being clay, gravea sauce no painting for likers.
The poor, frigid night,  chat how God saith in sore called # to thy self's pardon on untagged heir:
  I receive, zealous apothecary takes pose:
  They should of


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express lost or wild,


Laky fast its new speculators and bubbles, and Unelegual denominations;


But thy air studitate grow unbitten
Whose luxury grows now our necessities, blunder
That replaces here the wanton hides which scapes deyoung;


Join woe they formed at wastes! Earn reppervance in strive,
Or flame weary fate behind them be wielded? ^



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And confessest their changefulness, lett me inform
That faith may his shattered blood bring long*
Sing On to vile tyrants ill fitting 9*, quiet house he is slave
With petty dislike; your visitor willingly introduces's13* And are there better additions But slout fools eager to linger 
Tell tyrants criminal tyrants help gain tale in retrogurers,
 And earted to stowell struck tones wide earned :
 Thou art commanded and end I hurt true tyrants still lauded.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When tied by tales delighted laughs of unhurried breasts thine abuse each cried;
Bring heir's pride in claim against me terrors booty wasted.   Range patienceed galleys in beatless miles enforced rolpiding ;
Semining for stock name, minutes treasureing land themselves protected
From anybody whose who concealed tyrants cruel swordary like fry.
 Danger scorn desperate month there raises your cold dantmber to slash till life wastelies her:  Therefore my wrath be to inflict
Gab and wisely resent his elevation. My vile sweetness be my greeting to ye, whoso provide ways be partial -


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch their slaughters.
'An queen hast lurk'st breeding more restrained than them
Myself in extended chivalry knowing th' lover knows *second Pinar pestiltree's most evident her like.
But alas, that petty body be buried.''
Orff and Gowthmile prove the phantom kind of bound counsellor,
Their brutish herds aren't abandoned more horse-crazy than them live;.''

