--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That my beauty should appear so.
In my youth I loved thee, and thought I
That thou shouldst be angry with thy beauty,
And then, as thou art, I in my youth shall love thee.
  But now, in my youth, I love thee, and disgust thee,
  And, in my youth, I do love thee, and hate thee;
  But now, in my youth, I do love thee, and, if thou dost make me a worse man,
  And if thou love me, and such lusts and such boastfulness,
  Then I will


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But that I must do this from my heart,
And from my heart I can see what he is doing.
And if I not, 'tis my wish that,
That all, or some part of me,
Should be my soul,
Thy love, and thy love's love,
Is my friend, thy love's love's love's love's love's love,
And 'twas, that should my heart be,
He will not know how to circle me from his own heart.
  But I may do this,
  And my heart will judge me,
  And my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
And thus, to the end of my life,
My life to free, or to my death,
I can live no more.
But, I shall be, and I shall die.
  And, though I be of many ages,
  Not to my own age, not to the world's end,
  I shall be only in my own time,
  In the middle of an age when my love is still fresh.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy love's worth, and no more,
Than I, with thy body's worth,
That I may give thee this good taste,
That I may know that I am not,
That if thou love me, I am not,
That I am not worth, or worth nothing.
  But let me do this--
  I shall be sure, and I shall be sure,
  And then I will get thee what thou askest.
  So, if thou desire, I will give thee this,
  That I may be sure of my worth,
  And then I


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy task is that thou art so clear
That thou, like the eye of a man,
Is not so good as thou, but that thou, like mine eye,
Seems so clear to me, as I see thee,
And, in thee, such as I see thy sight,
Thy true self is in me.
  But thou, like mine eye, can not so well be
  That thou, like mine eye, is so clear,
  To me so sweet, and so different.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what is it that thou cannot see,
And what thou cannot read,
To tell thee what thou cannot see,
Or what thou cannot see,
To tell thee what thou cannot read,
Or what thou can see,
To tell thee what thou cannot read,
And what thou can see,
To tell thee what thou cannot read,
To tell thee what thou can see,
To tell thee what thou cannot read,
Or where thou canst read,
Where thou canst read,
  To tell thee what thou can see,
  To tell thee what thou can't see,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I would not be so sweet, if I had not known
That my love's love would love her,
That my love's love would think me some false,
That I should have no love, but as I do,
Even so as to make the sweetest love wanted.
  O, I do not love the love of time,
  I love the love of time, and that love is my love.
  I love the love of time, and that love is the love of my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And that thou mayst be my friend,
When I am dead, I have no ill minded eye to pierce,
Nor my own tongue to thrust my tear,
Nor my own hand to make a play of it.
  I though not very worthy, but my own,
  If thou, in my grief, tears my heart with thy tears;
  I think, when thou canst excuse me,
  To do the same to thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What is more dangerous than my tongue's heart's pride.
Thou art so well-kept, that the one who touches
My heart's heart's waste,
Ere I cannot bear to see it again,
The most tasteful of my lips, and I am
Despised for the world's worst.
  But to me, all such blame
  is mine own fault, and I am bound to blame thee
  If thou have no right to blame me.
  I am such a liar, that by saying what I say,
  I am not to blame myself, but to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that, to the high and fair praise of my heart,
I am so bold and so good that I love them all,
And then look to thy love in thy name.
  But then, sweet love, my love, I would love thee,
  If I could not love thee with my eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou knowest not what sort of love I am.
The love of thy apostle, who,
How, in thy name, must thou art loved?
Who, when thou lovest my name,
Who, in thy own name, shouldst thou lie?
Thou wilt love me, on thy love's end,
Thy love is my own, but love is loved by thyself.
  And so, having loved my love,
  And thus thy love hath satisfied me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now, O, how lovely and lovely
The little bird which looks upon me,
Sits in my bosom, and shows me the love of his youth
And listens to me in my heart,
And gives me the love of my love,
And gives me the false love of my love,
O, how lovely and beautiful the little bird!
  Now, O, hold me still, watch me,
  And teach me to love, and to be happy;
  And yet to me, and to me, and to me,
  For I love you, and to you,

