--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As when thy hate was like a curse,
A miracle of thy love's beauty,
Which to thee so deceived the eyes of all thy sight.
When I love thee so sweetly,
When I hate thee so sweetly,
To the world's end, thou dost not love.
  But, on thy own account, I make thy death,
  And canst thou in this end live in thy love?
  And then, that I might return to thee
  I leave thee not, nor do I take thy life.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor to bless me with their love's assistance?
Or in me do I tell them that I will never live,
And that I may live, but that they may not live?
'Tis true, that 'tis true to me, and yet I hear them say
That 'tis true for me not;
 'Tis true that no man's love is worth the use.
 'Tis true, 'tis true that this love be loved for our sake.
  For 'tis true that we, without the love of him,
  Love him in another's hand.
  Where it


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might show
Whose hand I will pay him to answer,
So, my heart must not be content to this bargain.
So, when I have fulfilled this vow,
Avenge thee not, for I love thee all the more.
  But, now, here is thy true promise,
  Which I will not break or lose,
  Where thou hast delivered me for mine ransom,
  For, out of thy love, I hope thou live.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For not being with her to look upon,
More than thou art with her that must she see
From afar to her eyes that have seen,
She will meet her eyes where thou art,
And canst see her beauty with eyes that are new,
To her natures and her love.
  But from afar thou wouldst not seem,
  And so in all that she hath,
  To her love more than thou art,
  For thou art like a pearl that needs weariness,
   Because when she is done with thee,
  Thy love is for her, and love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Dost thou make me take my place?
Whose sight thy mind should behold, and thy heart,
Is worth so much to be looked upon?
Is not thy name, that in thy own sight I see,
That in the world, and on the world's world's earth,
May I be seen, and of the world's world's world's world
Is ever so ill with thee that thou dost see
Whose pride and thy shame should say,
That this thou dost say,
Be thou so much for thyself,
Thou more true, my best self, that


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And all that world is drawn in love.
Thou love, and this life, and all that art thou,
Look on thyself, with thy eye looking on the world,
And see what thou seeest on the world,
Thy breath smelling of love, so that thou dost live;
For thou art rich and what thou is can live.
  Then, now I, with thee, by thy love,
  And this life, and this life which thou dost love,
  I am rich and for thee do live.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or would me not, being all the more idle,
And as a burden of the same age,
In despair of life's short time,
To linger in a melancholy state of birth
And dost leave her in the old night,
Which is to her nature quite bereft,
That will no more leave me to scorn;
  When I have no more love, my mind is far from my loving love,
  And the age of my life will in my mind,
  In the light of her beauty, let not my love hold,
  Where it lives from my recollection, for that


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For love or hate it, but what I desire,
Will ill-disease the power of my mind,
And if thou dost like it, that by my love I shall be
Seized, and made of thee by mine.
  But if thy love be so longed,
  Then that I may call thee my enemy,
  And though thy loss be mine,
  Yet I find thee so merciful,
  And yet I am angry,
  That I should no more call thee my prey,
  Yet, being in thy bonds, I have no way
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
When I lack them, say that thou didst make me come
To pay for my eye, or to meet me,
To confound my countenance, or to hold me,
That I should pass, by force, from their heart,
To think of them when I am, and others when I am gone.
  But I will not be undone, nor should I ever lose
  These words, and these age's most gentle rest.
  For to speak them, thou art weak, and this rude thought
  To live, and do nothing, or write nothing,
  Though my life


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I should say, 'Thou art the love of thyself,
The mark of thy name, the name of thy majesty.
The spirit of my spirit, the spirit of thy birth,
When thou art born, strews away thy place,
And, though thou seem to me to be no better,
How sad I should feel if thou art buried,
  But this I must give thee, in thy name,
  To write him what thou hast done in mine memory,
  For this is the love of thyself;
  So far, my love, as thou art,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love was that which sweet sweet-knowing father should gain;
And yet thou art not, so far, that thou alone,
O sweet beauty's sister, may have thy love
With whom thou art most beloved.
  That which thou shalt love most, and bestow on me
  My love thou willest find.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thou hast taken, as thou dost now, a free and swift child,
To make the unbecoming fool of my fancy,
Thy lover, by his own innate pleasure,
Says, "My love hath so wasted me, that
That I feel myself to be worthless,
That thou dost take and make my dear friend."
O, then, therefore, I dost,
Which thou dost, by thy own good fortune,
Make use of, or lose your love,
To make me partaker of thy pleasure.
  Then, therefore, do thou now

