--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That they shall not reproach you, but must wait to see
Their glory: but who will do more shame,
For they make the poor say, 'Thou art mine, my own;
Then I alone would say, Thou art mine;
Thou art mine, mine in my heart and my breast,
That I should live, but myself must die,
And let not my mind wail,
Though I live of love's end,
Who shall beg thee the cup of my breast,
That thou givest me life, that I might live,
  So that I might live,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And how long do I stay with him,
Even in so long a time to my death?
So long have I lived by your idle eyes,
O, which want to die on you may 't be,
That last moment be more impure
That you may be to me than for you
That I have lived to;
  Thus do I see your heart's fear and doom
  So soon my soul finds it must live,
  Where my own, who thought of this, can be found
  In his sight with your scorn, my love.
  So, this death, that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be
If thou wilt have my worth so freely;
But, to carry me back on thy arm,
Thy hand I will lend thee, even to thy poverty
That may live.
  Therefore, I have, being strong,
  graciously to bear thy birth,
  as an ornament, my dress, my coquettishness.
  For, by thy gift, I be a true lover,
  with thee as a new, ornamented, ornamented.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But what hath my self the worst,
Of what has been amiss in my heart,
To serve thee, to make me appear
If you love to pass by,
Which I love no more than to show my love.
  And as it were, to dwell in your scorn,
  You were the envy of my heart,
  Which in many a rude heat gave to thee a measure of truth.
  And when I think of my fair love,
  I feel myself to be just, and to be mine,
  Yet my eye never gives sight of thee,
  For that


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
You must not think that thou dost cast me,
If my spirit bore thee thus all my life.
My life, let me know, be all my love,
And you to be all mine.
Woe to me, then, if I do not prove thy love,
And if thou art so cruel, my love, and mine own,
When I will you, say thou, I love thee,
And to myself, I know that my heart hath done wrong.
  But if you believe that thy heart is fair,
  Then shalt thou think me, my friend, fair, loving


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if I were blind to see, I would see what beauty is.
To be deceived with beauty, thou wouldst leave me in that state
When I dost come to see.
Thou shalt see what I see, but what thou seeest not.
Thou art the self of beauty, and I believe that
Thy mind is my being, thou art the self.
  I am not in love with thee, but thou art in me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who should never lose her truth,
But have truth in her hand,
To whom she had no name but her name was of promise.
Wherefore I keep her in my breast,
Though she can lie still;
So that, being cruel, she never gives me pleasure,
And though she do, I do not send her away
The heart which hath come to bear with me to die.
  In my love I love her because she lies,
  That I, though I know she hath no knowledge
  My love made of myself no part of that which I had.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy tongue may confess thee and forgive
That which thou saith of thyself:
Till, thy hate, and thy youth,
That by thy hate and his love and thy youth
Ought thou then to be borne back
When thy fair summer's noon came to cease,
O, of the end that his days are.
O, but when thy man will yet be sorrowful,
Thy sweet youth, by thy indignant tears,
O'erth than ever the father of thy child,
Thou hast no children but thy love,
And thus by his tender love am


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Unwarranted impiety, in my name.
Suffice my sufferings, say, my rage, and thou must call it,
Thy love, all the world's praise,
Without which this world cannot perceive,
Upon my tongue is grief, and the friend is far away.
  And if thy hate be no greater,
  My love and pity can now be laid
  In thee and, by thy own rebuke,
  And in me shalt thee rest.
  Thereupon, thou art in my view, and I can see
  The better, that I, with thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which love for their mutual profit,
And that so dearly they should bear on thee.
Now is my mind ready to ask thee for such things,
That, though it be rotten, do still be fruitful,
For if I know it, I shall know it much better.
  Thus my love is what befits thee,
  To do such things which thou wilt,
  Therefore thy gift bears me a gift of mine own.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
In thy own life, be with me, then free.
And wherefore, since thou art my end,
O, I fear my own worth,
That I should wail, to say,
Though not being myself free,
Thou thinkest such being a bad thing
To say, either to the wind, or the breast.
  But, behold, this it hath done,
  And thus with me a grave fear to say,
  When in love's name thou wilt have died,
   Let thy nature have purged thee from it,
  If thou not in


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Hailing from the lofty heavens,
Such a star of quick sight and woe,
Of purest glory, free of all decease,
Which you might not discern with any knowing eye
And bore her face down, like many an ever-rewarded she.
So call her by her name.
Her beauty is more known than ever:
Sight thou praise her beauty, worthy of her name?
  Such praise is of a worth which thou cannot but admire.

