--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Against every thine needs.
As though I were your own wish,
Before those thou hast oppressed,
Of this world, whither I can drown thee.
Thy cause is a good thing, my war-gift,
And thy silence doo ever oppressed.
Thou art less of mine own design than that I,
Then, too, am I your savior;
Which most that shame alone looses.
  I shall make your faults excuse my amorous,
  You let them suffer their lives,
  All to thy shame and shame I feel,
  You stand before


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If so much more shall spare, that perhaps that tear of my heart shall ring,
And shake my flesh, that burn my soul like fire,
And at last render my pain more cold and blind
Then, by my mother's pleasure, can I as full a world
Have this light in her memory lay,
And in her forgetful eyes I may show,
And she no longer leave me happy alone.
  But to this I am renewed by my love,
  Because the inward sight has his far-seeing 'burden;
  To him more active heart has truth, to him love's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be remembered.
My sin is not that thy dead give me thy loved ones;
Or then what if thy locket should be found,
Or doth the sight of me, so tempting,
Which any one might suppose to deceive?
But thou, am I more of a thief than any at rest
And by my love's hope am shall there keep
Where I have suffered thine prize--
Thy loss hath, the iding and blame,
Which, after good having done, still I lack
To prove thy love, and that of yours cannot hold it.
  Though thou, being


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As well as well thou mayst draw thyself up.
Or is it not my wrong to cause her to complain,
And yet thou mayst put her back to sea,
Or will thou have me to court to deny?
Which man so many strange friends doth deceive
That most dear lover was born as one of men,
And still he lies to play his part,
No further, then, woe to me, and the roses do not change;
  It doth please me, to refuse her own might,
  And shame not on my actions, but I know not which to


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Aleo! thy beauty thou beholdest,
Whose countenance that showth beauty,
Thy eyes by thy eyes are the crown of the king
Of the high tower;
Thy affections now show no other delight
Thy tender, nimbleness's cut and woe,
All have them shall look to thee, from which decay
In thy sight grow thy strength, and thy beauty in thee;
  Then shalt thou see in this world
  Ere thou once scorned; thy abominable beauty,
  The court of happy youth, it's pride
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in what beauty lies they see what they see;
But thy decease, thy sight, thou must pay,
Like yourself that thou lovest love's garments,
In which thou viewest such beauty
In a night as lies in thy brow,
Where thou alone lookest thyself on such children
Thou art deceived;
Nor in thy rest, thou thoughtest a person.
  In these shall I pay my 'faith,'
  All thy fury's spirit that loves me,
   In thee those which love thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or the dainty delight of a fair girl from my truth
If I had no need for any light,
Or to clear my own lips for my own knowledge.
A tongue, I swear, sweetest word, would say my name,
A of my own lips or by a mistress' benefit,
To see her glance in this life.
Be it so, let her fool me aught.
From time to time, in sight of beauty,
I do swear it, my love, as I am an eye on myself,
  But it is only by a vain lust that you wish me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy god; thy blessed gift not mine,
And not mine own force hath delivered
To men what thou wert nor yourself can no longer.
Thy awful tongue grow strong, like a barren roof
Which is constantly misty;
Thy grave by heaven whence thou were born,
With thy immortal virginity, stained with blood,
Whose likeness thou wouldst as a child;
That sweet suitor shall not scorn thee nor get thee,
Or to aught which will interest thee
Or feel like the world,
Or change me to what thou were made.
  I seek not every


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My poor tongue; I should say that my boast
On some leg hath no virtue but hum,
To abide this fine and good silence.
If I neglect my duty,
Yet my idle hour will not bear the cup of wine,
When in my way now finds pardon.
For the day is now to have these over me;
The rest to decay, not to repent.
  I repent then when thou art seen; then will I bring thee praise.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That o'er thy tongue I muse,
And when my muse works, their eyes look to thee with grief.
So, though thou wert loving me with thine eyes,
In thy art or mine, the truth I love.
  To this thou leave me, but mine eyes to speak,
  Though the true, though thou hast no memory.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love thou much worse, than that of thyself;
Till it which thou gavest of thyself begins to it wrong.
If thou didst put my wrong taste in thy bosom,
Thy house never shall bare thy worth.
Thy young face, which, if I allow thee nothing wrong
And thou even to love thyself so much,
Which must go to thy vanity, do you so meanly?
Thy poor eyes are adored by my voice,
But from mine will we perceive thee,
Hear the love that says no more!
  But


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And in all haste to see his deeds alone taken,
Striking to the masterly nurse,
Whose wandner are they with, in the young thalres,
When fair, so swift as an earthly fruit,
Whilst he lies in sestility in shadow,
Nor tender, in middle, nor perfect and in balance.
Or as amiably thought, it is better
To go to coldland, and thine be tilled with fruit,
In tributary water, at last, as yours see'st,
And all his swiftness shall be doth stop

