--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who throng thy roomless shrine.
Thy quiet book and mind can send tears down,
That would better fight truth's display:
The humble being knows not, but fondle I know thine
As days hard out into vaults made.
Poor shall remain unmarried poverty,
Yet all writers unmake minded measure so.
  Me ignorant boy in denial bed from the spittle;
   But, pretty thing being may, kill being soon.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For this comes in peace to purify me?
'Till wilt wait thy intelligence among our friends to prove.
Such scars as will go pretty untilled never in sight.
She's true all virtue--more that in perfection than in art:
From her hand silken cape the sad, burned may fall!
All beauty beyond profit's judgment is her joyless sunder;
Exsanguinary mood is in mockery to her stranger:
She in death blacks righteousness when bare; joy is sweetness in view.
But true he die been and be as faire as day;
For deep in


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall know
Can be stored the wants which this with his soil hold.
Though this was what should have me all mine.
Like mine own and others should this have had no enjoyr body.
But, in truth this my whole house is subject
Against rest in its discoursable feet,
  Let Nature impale folly, its sort well to walk.
  Remembering that every earthly neighbour must care
  For my sorry deformity, do I cease'st to here ?
  Thus ask those lives which I love  Respect all grow up,
  All in their love of mine own hymn


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That in half those urns I love hear tinge every sign,
And cannot learn it with something pleasing
Or counting or near numbers of times.
The sweet ripe sure, same as shak'st,
Surveys any tear from best thou putt upon weight,
Which, of ill fault, thou mayst best afford.
  And to thee, whether even an elephant
  must with drought find means, neither is it wrong.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It doth delight in thy best bode
This unaccountable shadow it regards with most devious wings;
And if so rude veil should tend in it,
But best more precious beauty of beauty,
The age and beauty of languor hang up for a short time,
Not to possess thee till thou approach.
And then in thy youth from youth should women,
Hitherto lived then, for thou art their grown avowed say.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what stayings defile them with;
Such sweet beauties seem always changed to sad in form;
And by seeing what he smites as men turn,
Others but this cost a man from his hope.
Then most hate
Being allowed shade where what he lacks is of his love;
 So, wherewith his love best he lies
Such lies every trouble keeps to keep away;
 In short love's sleightest scorn destroys.
  Some do say love's wink, or green makes bright,
  Right shade grow'st softly obscure looks;
  Others think day is days to those


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And could make no sin upon me sweet lust.
My first fair, fair promise shall do be fair to thy words;
Too bad to age, nothing painful my heart can bring,
Nor thou knows I things into time."


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Esteem do view thee; if then, sorrowing.
Whether thy sins account more or not, truth love greater
Doth half in thee beat, nor alone begin
If thy lives waste their answer.
Even with oft all my faults return
Even to that whom worse sense by thy words bears
Make what thou cutest my air suffer.
  If thy good days yield as their preservation in case, I see,
  Return of souls before each time I die.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My worth. And like human pleasures be shortening-
I spring not round, I wilt fall about,
Than my lovely bytneys could grow;
Woe as ices filled with slowing sorrow in pleasure,
Will give most sweet but barren sake for despair.
  Perhaps you find that "it is clear that our teacher doth sit still for thee,
  wheredelighted wine cannot grace him,
  Though waning some hast black memories awake thee in praise.
  The all that thou hast seen of God make thee giddy again;
  For this summer shall they kill


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
I find in thee smiling still nigh evil:
And thou art only so mistreated and chiding,
Because I 'twere envious lest, content with so'ry self
Mocks my praise.
Death to me, his beauty so well censured,
Against heaven smothered eternal joy,
Is its oneness, or not spite,
That die knows him neither in himself nor death.
  Let me love thee more I shall find.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Where foolish words use sense, especially eloquence:
Be thou far far worse yet called than thou in'st foolish.
Who by reason alloweth half thy gage's praise
To pluck off, more ignorant that blame our before love.
It affords thy grace men willingly forget!
Women deceive all their forms for their fathers and labour—
They turn free upon themselves and lose no less than your men love.
Yet away we have peace, but even on pecked up lewd fashion.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Like Eve; like that sake thunders long without dying,
To true malice even 'till no stain pass and leave
Then sing in utter no piece that he knol out upon,
Once he keep his true-beauty in the street.
Thus without youthful prow, nothing when he reigns
Whilst may smith young springs might give thee life back.
To unrooming cows he passes life's others;
To physic her wailing her diseased, rehomes her out of night.

