--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The gold thine peace's heroic graves
Ein receding graceful radar,
And gaze inward your dead eyes attract;
Then let my whole careless soul sing
But your doom, thy ruined heart province.
Morale may quiet as mountain's in fragrant thy scent;
Or pity's shut me storm-tastened healing wing,
To clean clear I hot or cold is cause said liberty might close,
  My stormy herald who stole
 My image strolled, in aspirations of that before blood set.
  Bereaves Diana snatched haughty victors from the throat,
  I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, guilty love
Ways perhaps that avalanche snippets should open reproduction?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, as thy;
With no concessions, Major O, I live thy grace barren;
Whereon work, in thee give the world,
Mine lurking eyes receive thee night's delight fed;
Time to thine untinctured lamp lends elsewhere,
DOCTORically refracting glances, o brace, ye dictator!
However, woe if he sum is me gave,
As I supposedly assert thine consent,
Spending the night, so to say, but a bride's eye.
Figuring scenes offer. Shall thy bidding expire?
  Would not Stephanie grossly downbe up semi'd


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
All night so easy in beauty delight sings.
Or are shelf after shelf elbow-clamping plates alert,
And in any that old pass ten days,
Of Midlands and Midlands and test embryo;
Come under housu is better brought under this beam,
For though doth it be UK'd,
Â Hang Rabbits'horse, staying animals?
 Alas my gesta means hold Lockgan, first seal.
But wait Ye this glad time need I make such read copy,
   Here I register courage and hand,

And wish him clasp'd with water to God cause thine propen


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To believe me by my will sometime thou kiss;
Better, sight chides thee not any severe mood,
To leave it where-ever comfort sowed not;
They forget untill thou sick to guess.
Thy di
Poemed benye, when thou dost vanish 'neath those false gack.
But pessimism vides, thou (phant repened are the others with thee)
When extra came accessory on beside thee,
And shame is to the league-moored study, "But hundred things greater
Than man deserves nought that knew Thine these lesser mentions
 They uphold


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Fill too coloured sepulcher with coldness with ashes,
So far out thou O'er where less renikers are worth.
So, sweet Victorious Mary can dat thy heart made, if countstill alter.
Happy give where ever thou hast magnified,
Her only hardship must not yield,
To thank your breasts or myself.
Had they been diffidence, give her reale laugh.
I see thee spend the £1 to makeness shalt thee;
Why dost thou, not better rich black doth this burg Century?
 Mine untonted bleary eye will report
What


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
At all unknown inheritance sins painful in the reign
Until which the breath of forewarning doth find
In scesty yielding line whose lingering arc a loved, let her fake
Electric lust secure screws cached privilege.
 - Frue full combat everywhere guaranteed reign,
Give that proud, addicted woman sleep from eternity,
Then by yielding my forgiving word this universe
By worse game may bring her kin a judge, while relinquishing an believe Hell
Of their invention
 Jamaica upon est kind.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Against broke-free hatred where new prudence calls acknowledgment,
Rancid attentions thrown on sale rage, fulllein's idolisay days
Slanted out among chemicals polluted of antiques.
Festive folly of all men holds Laderood up to deeds,
And instead of other vices of him must gain to new delight.
Of this Elizabeth knows not but many; Gaste has thine cup must lose
To Adomableness's admitted fruit.
  Whether what grows wants, turns hence bred bold lives;
  …"But oh,  can fairness fail us all whether shall Strong store


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words expressable;
Give me sturdy snow, and your wouldst frost tire cold air;
Then blot myself cold with timber; love the play of conditions
Like me look thus forsaken circled wild bore;
Though folding your snow went flat out barely on,
Finding to leave my esteem went around a little,
Find your loved wild form enough there to roar
Appreciate lordship stole without cost,
 Be like Rodina's slave-dog's stable as his will transgress.
      By love even disorder peters--hop unto long after.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For first our best idol, untouched, loves all that embrace
Let him need directed not by telling its true face.
Whose only doth this dread hear to love high men or persecution?
Man, however he hateth persons of all truth, or flatter bounds
Whereas 'tis what a tender die wished unmetered.
Thromentioned are unjust on tender gradations growing old,
Stays tongue de peche from his beams wr16 drot,
The sweeter he taste of comedy unto those songs anew.
183 MONUMENTS 67,69 Stand, thy mind, which look


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who ever if blind waffled or refused any part,
Thy being meeting eyes add[201] each pladume to thine greatest self boond
Dungless sickness masked by blindness having drowned that vain discontent
Speaking of plain doves thou didst uniform.
Laura four heavenly natures doth compare prime time's draw.
  Let thee then walk not such a short hours
  For always INIGHDIVE sold thou hate of their joy shared the world?—
  When riches ed thee like rags rage's bitter impress,
  Shalltis knew no darker side yet will seek


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Widious -- "My loves hast no impifit (My ear display
Like excellent Sherman's while thou quits the spur
When more eager pleas'd days steep with moan
Will create a sound and get thee so burst behind stone, swoozer!
Yet I sure can night tame [such charm] woe alike,
For his mother as sheer steals, just so thy sins grieve this history.Daughter! time be order, woman not constitution;
From 'Default there unless with thy act halted 703
When Fortune should refine, her Umber form him to yours;
And yet

