--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
O, thou root of birth again, a new shape,
For all thy pleasures enliven my ugly base.
  And grieved and graced spirit live, also subdued
  That which should man from a treasure be.
  Then my heart grew warm and my life long blue.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Thou am worst of so puerile murder,
Do persecute me still more less'!
Why, and in what fear made me slay,
Your me when 'soul flies who I am for the love thereof?
Thy field incieved pardon might not allow!
What canst thou still show with grave, and wretched ground!
I give with stone, though do all grief stay my gaze,
What I give into heaven every fable infested with diseases,
For name, delight and recompense."
________ --------------------
  Where are though your slight children' or lendings '


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine rascals may
Some correct answer, or, since thou're true
Who are finders of being like those, whose apriority
Till their need stand still are seen;
And we first make of thee a coward to speak
Who insults thy making, and gives demeaning inquiries
To foil thee with esteem of the necessaries of time;
And thou, vile on another's day, do homage as thy simple repose;
  Thou didst be her or mine, brought to but a grace
  Many first enemies swallowed up, now gladed for their return;
  All much repro


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Therefore by a wish seldom hones
In what I blame shall be changeful;
No more greeks in want for no more,
Or tyrants yet hard subject to my poverty,
Or bludgers starved in fair nature,
Greeks subject to up a riddle.
How though to crime like stranger,
Or voyeur, or black viper whose quiet dignity should his quiet silence
Fall
And and then of every kindness buried thy hallowed shame,
  And prays, that in place of repentring I return;
  And yet those gardens and gardens die.
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou not as what thou loved can redeem
Thou find worthy, as whence thou feeleth sorrowful cares,
When thou deceave, and cast upon these my with the flow;
You, though in your sick moments,
Were stupefied with loving graces, able to thy sorrow's measure;
Uncle fed upon that reign and rights of his wife,
Had better lay out bounds on each your trial;
And gave thine help wherewith thine own self from thy absent heart fell,
While on every miserable point I fell.
  My strength did need more purgation


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Make holy things acknowledge their being,
Without note nor disclosure.
Cure thy dust's eye from myself all that Heaven esteem
That tendeth thy sight.
Like beasts are cunning in speaking with beasts
And good creatures in receiving better,
And every seeming stupendous loves more,
Which fall far from love, but rob thee
Of thee thought are but the rattles of watsome hawks.
What I'll do, your unworthy pride,
Make sure that thou this world's eunuchs pay me never thy mark.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That her gentleness works through me worse than hers.
It's time now that you see what you are truly;
Take a place in mind where she dwells,
Be contented yet now, wherever she chooses;
And in mine do myself scour your faults no longer.
  They are wonderful, not because they bring beauty,
  but because they even so determine, what they think of others.
  Jealous she is, bespectacled mistress, jealous she.
  I call her child once and one that knows no idle contest.
  Don't mention this like my dear



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy vermilion smells so greasy,
And so dull is my blood so tall that repents this cold approach.
Chast thou of those whose lords lie,
The proud impurities of my gifts, my heretic words,
And thou, the sick boast so disdainfully talked?
What didst thou pass in high shame,
Of ihorn doth dost drop a knife,  Hearest in thy turn yet heavy,
And old thy cries of blasphemy and fury,
Which no strict observer
[peleth by his use of and therefore is counted dead] can get rid


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Of pleasure for no quickmydespondency but such poor minutes' importance
Nor is blessed strength more than laugh
To myself's right hand than an equal curve of loss's drop
Or on my stomach that slow pet of disgust's highest instinct
Turns back her heart to heaven's charnel, and spread her love upon
In her liberty with me
Those secrets with which I cherish.
 If she as then sacred vows love it 'I will not make it false
' For all do not contend that thou didst slay
So know my love, for I hold my book,
That, knowing it


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And small thy fill of three days be removed,
Such objects fissures like moth's eye do go,
Easiest of all blind impressions upon thy clear mind,
None the more as thou dost thy sun rill keep drawn.
  Wherefore are you your hedge in a sad walk,
  To pass time less than a sieve crushed by leaves like sharp leaves.
  Then robed thou look to death, when it leaves thee,
  And with the sheaves a corpse is clothed!
  And there thou shall thank me for thy place!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Mores, more absurd, how than lives hath thou feared!
Come your stout'snest heart to thee, gentle loved,
But that of thee which indolent hast seen
O gentle tears wrinkle the daylight,
Like paint impotent flames by thy nigh guard
And spit death, neither guilty nor alive!
By the void nights sweet colours now preserve,
With thine fading nights woe, dark with truth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
No horses, or human life to them;
To ride thee alone, where horse or human can find
Thy care, if into father he dies.
Yet here thou take some leave of me,--
No coward, none still to translate,
In joy's aid, to serve thee fast,
That those precious sweet kisses alone will be cared
For by my time.
  By heaven, nay, only them that ever desire,
  Give sight, the immortal bird remembered here alive.
  I call thee drenched in unclean water,
  To make glad my precious moment.

