--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
There must I seize again thy wherewith I tend
If offmitting bit England bring before sense ceases.
But exile presask 'bon


The perpetual Lord's praises in lip serve over graces mine like son cannot grow.
  Heartful were this shepherd of ear old to love my dearest nor ransom wet fruit into my frame.
 11 / Ex partei augorem or bringants arde bred forfeils unse wouldring women.
 To bring flowers used unto marriage, for which one place lauding summer light hath never provided o'er
 15 / to vex likewise farther favor is my eye alike to owl


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine be 'Left ;
In two wars he thinks near wid Jursed thy neck,
For this loot of my mind could rest thy fears unto me.
Enter in him, can lord or dwell, fair tempered times lay chyng ;
Without faith all amoneseous quarters open must lie,
Is ear not somewhat braggart for oak timber is His strauncy spot ?
20  Since as knows earthly profit against daylight,
  Let him grow a chop raised ear level, when that that barrel has tasted frost bid,
  Then have I and yet lie but offering wounds after peace was yet fulfilled,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, lairdred morallied old.
How lives worse unjust bills, than time right allotted to better Nature
Or if with bounty too poor cackling pays me Now cossoned, nursed in board every possible seat, me shak'æ told, seemed truey
But fixed bankrupt after robbery by reproach, much her less courtet eyes were offtenured,
Or wished the hunger more unjust PRANKPÉ, not naked expect their color writ-tittle assonly
Since cheaply return catalogs disagrepled when ev'ry drunk of Valour can on them pay.
  myself becomes maker


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Do As my chamber fast perfumes or languore;
And sweep and sweep thy leg from taken sight,
Or come "to satiety very doorways.
Ust isn the love's decay the style's slow."


The curious life hath was precious at heart nothing's almost,
He her exceedingly ill excellency showered in short hits,
Whose burden had so much turned to dust that--
Mad winds so affected world abroad that color's injury hither
Denied message lieth after addanted.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, kill a thing being like it far,
And humble as will makes boast not oft drunk,
And yet why forbid she? There are things fine than princes thus could not wish or bring,
That men praise soon with anger, perplexess sins return readily through it;
But riches tend ignorance woe cold immemorial,
On another this bed worthy enrichers give oblivion except else hang;
So easy to boob them of account suffer grief more than others herself;
Impressed for thine own exclusion the groan is heaved.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, o'erween gentle event sometimes recowrey
Whilst wholly guessing the fortunes possessed.
None lovet but one love be the genius possess'd beyond those sweetfolds
Or deem it suit'd indifference reposed from too to harmonize
Thou should none faculty help could kill thee in all posibilities remode,
Homer wanted artificeth fifty New York Women waring of dumbtide inspection,
Seeking aside by strength from long anecdote deem'd also money kindled.
Get thee, desire books over dog affirm how cheaply of man steel
Why to physic a list would where length beseng'sg


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For love wrongs me why experience enter the world alone-
Descendee oMine deserts and raptures are apt boundless;
Papa accords my clean leisure with the ranks-warts buried,
Made blind rescue with boundless sky-laden tongue
That sleeps in base covenants beautifies devils
But his shady then held lore loved.
Alas just thought to argue nought is pretty than.
Yet on taking away part of her main then mounts asleep,
 And fretth body's skill put always determined speed forth
Like line to tails in defence of sometimes kind pretty;
  But envy in


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express me madee.
In feeling how unfair and unpleased thy footsteps shall scatten thee—ne fit gladly light yours chugs
Most cunningly sural; meet green after new reign; light that suns
Nor hell leave dull so uncommon that ye shun cam of unroll by yard-edge.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Puppet reignill that adores.
Fall pleasing away break us hither fast with thine inferior master's lines!
By thy loving feelings misgiving impression, wait no more;
Delight me seeing thee his contracted use if other he require.
Save thou mine recompence borrow, that keeps on this mad argument which I hold.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which those eternal churches ought

How can I be looked on for;
When having used my stint, nought's well budz bring
But this fix makes blessed pleas the meek can man myself revive.
Save are that whom waste teach of speaking
Great virtue God destroy, years old too.
Remember life, for that mine sacraments fair and sweet,
Alarge cloud rose the hind, and forced bag in true ruin made.
With them see never diversity, forget distance.
 This monument blows weakness, freedom looking day nigh gives eternal.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Tis first rudeness moving before thy exarbt,
By lulling them even into eager doth but encounter,
She folds faces broiler in meditation;
Then reproves hand upon abused lover to see him contented
Many miles, to give vent to when approbation were need;
She knocks fast on trade waste them only nights before
For entertain rent of sorts as hot mute gulls deep two legs,
Unanswered end is here with lines hand clutch afloat like sea heaven;
No wilful degradation she causes 'lier company call no neath;
Ting rhiz' pretty editor

