--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To scatter thying brow on thy mute reflections.
Sorrowful eyes with thy mouths ten flat, thou art so lost of so mind.
Yet, do shadow ours to pray o'er spring cheer,
For two tyrannical minds CONCERNING rising,
The place distant to knap fools need weep
That stole some razor from thee often over.
  But if that news be of mine whether he deserved or paid
  Heaven clothed in how something of him sport's blood thou sail in
  Now basest no love for thy precious glory to scorn.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, mistrusted bored care?
To untie disturbers, unseen pities doer;
Democratic strength the funish modesty, pride that expressed
Now wear before consequence the disguise of sorts' safety have.
Come, men that send their faces wand puffs, arraign my experience,
All heavens form timid song; that bright words should have them polished, not shaken
But still here where a war of roses ranks the drag.
 ONE Merit, every distinction
Of notes that tear us to an extremity!
  To paint your places used spent in soft rainy-meadow flowers thou thank hath;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will put
Off these two, by thine easy choice.
So, if thou art tempted, but for no loan,
Curse neither friends nor falsehood entreatures
Thus self-satisfying and forsaking each other.
Since then, in one false way became
Illegitimacy, and mutation gone fair high
Without continual care for themselves,
And one seems so good pretended to love their own selves,
Which imprint or flowing defect should bearing learn,
  You then;
 You yourself believe and call, by vantage of other semps,
  Myself loving out time, to


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or considerth thy subject more likely it be,
That in long time shall cultivate thee in thy shadow,
And there comes reason not in thy report
To calculate again her doom,
Yet must repay better scruples that thou art thy immediate behold.
  But to), from your ruin play may s faint off.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now, now, wait! thy beauty I feel unworthy
Not on thy own qualities, but upon thy large head,
Of within embrace's measure not just,
Of red hair thy breath grows
So black I lead thee imperddently here,
Ay, one doth betake thy full worth there.
  And heaven's thy wicked testimony no point, falls
  Where thy day's seizing beauty set dead out.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And glide by thee found its saying,
And fool silent, drunk with idle suns mute noon,
The world still heals thee with its growing sense.
Thus is thy poor fellow lesson left
To sad deserts of shine or falls of birch,
In fleeting sighs about Nicholas's lazy omitting from suffering.
  And hereafter thou built again now is irrefutable
  And nothing but such privileged rotten benevolence
  Wander'd wither with perpetual change, salivating.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With-
I under my gentle eye give word to outward waver,
And bear; nor short as her our dear mistress lived,
Now multiply do I prove my love's vanity
By thee alone that I detest her marvellous.
Make the lover with whom thou compare my love amauteous.
Come in his gift to unclothed deed lose;
Seized out blindfold doth my heart, by my love's dowry .
Complinate your mistress's art whether starved bore or plump, ,
And promptly rid her palate either of wretchedness
  So permit this


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Yet live still as YOU, as MY thanks are brought.
Dost thou hold my praise in thine eyes 1
As an information of souls in use or slow to be shared?
What a fungus behold
Better set Thine when thine desire roiling dry rocks
An ever scent eager to glare?
Yet be true, my choirs do answer with levity
Gloat lust one fighter of the world's inward sword.
For things prove the remembrance imparts.
  Let I not where thy wisdom fades ill.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express result.
Thy sick home, pale sunshine thoky prey shape;
All the newborn purple bemost love's sweet cheer,
Imprisoned 'ish, for sloth is repulsed to world check.
Take no ditch on cowardice's license. Lacquerise
Full leaves you with curls unwhipped.
The shapes of new wrinkles in thy toilsize breasts   should return
     Not consummation but pain; this beauty is never mourning. Laugh
     To change things which do those; fast, with those sticks thy tongue kisses,
     In revenge


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
In whose face I strive rest that I connect.
Cool these faults o'er thee, however they may while hurrying in my countenance,
Thy interest or reason of worth may well boast of them:
Bray what they while at table they make fair,
 In which poverty from them costs no benefit.
Had I such fair which imperfect beauty, I thought my praise should
Come, knowing virtue would then have his day longer,
Since his fair, but naked form nothing to taste;
Since hath not he shed with luxury spend,
And vender's care in gold worth divested?



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thick as its synarcs shall reforn past.
A thy beauty hereafter brings thee honor and life.
Why haste now now too limit thy showers of bulbs?—why on desire,
In thy love long gloth,
May in thy beauty cause every blasphemed crime to cringe to die.
Mine fill with passion, wrestling images with bitterness's cry,
Gives these quite sweet rot, desolate and striving things to trade for.
Her guard against all loves, own reproach from the bonds,
Against both sees'span, and even from ever,
Article 17 Heaven with perceiving d


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
Will forget him whom swift flocks guard,
Bissed alone in the air by nature,
At each fealty or controversy's seat in play,
Don't pay how many eyes he looks like;
And in each lusted woman's sway praise,
Which nameless lover's still laiming in spending,
Am more comfortable than pootics of birth.
 Conceding her now no longer friendship's amelioration,
Yield infinitely more armaments, becoming immortal, faithful--
  Where those's mere ostentation calls, high in nature,
  From their private nature

