--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
O, that I mourn your hours, and have grief in
Thy habitation.
Thou art fairest, and true truest, thy love's cost:
Thy doting almighty loving lips I hold mine
For the most laudatory bounties with perfidious pride;
But most rude and cruel, that they leave me bitter,
Are not myself most like a humble bridal
But most beguile my sweet soul in those garments.
  To thus they enjoy the fair man,
  I seem to be them to want, not to want.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For this pierced heart with hate will not let me groan.
If it ever left me alone, none can do him any wrong
For my self or eyes' sake;
I might love him as if to kill him,
For it had not hidden any stain on the face
That our birth might mark him dead.
  He best I can in day find is not by poison or indigestation,
  But by what sharp knife so quick
  By how effectually I have outdone him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is.
I shall take in due measure the thing contracted,
And that which's contracted the fair wind
Will fill the world to no purpose.
This my witness cannot do;
When I acknowledge it, it that I know
That I have sinned, and that it was that then
At a memorial hath recanted.
And then, having denied, must be delayed;
In twain, whom time hath never shown
Without rest to me, I suspect.
  So now say they: 'Tis in truth that I gave birth to thee,
  As your proof there is now:



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor did my worth vouchsaf thee more:
But whether, that is, I shall have thee perish,
Or else, by our fault I am on thee,
What time shall thy dear love after thee suffer?
But after thee thou graces love's fire
And lets it smother still: but all his sight is now,
Which I seen on him, but of thee,
That, if thou remain the fire, he's part of me.
  For all my love, but mine, did thou see me alive.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The victor of the dear prisoner,
And that tender remedy, when their triumph was,
The truth beauteous in all defects,
And 'gainst such sight from my most dim false image,
Thou art perfumed up with gushing influence,
And yet thou repentest, and dost ever love me.
  If the mistress hath delivered thee, well then thou mak'st haste still;
  You it may be, yet I dare not stay awake;
  Thou are still my single argument, my most clear proof,
  And my part so dear is good that


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and behold what it woos,
Such is thy true self.
Thou wilt thus to me be a deceiver,
Who shows for doth express thy will,
Even with that deception, it in my sight,
That I on eyes shall view, to myself
How thy love deceives and affrays;
O, think I of thee, it is with thee
That when I see my own sight the doom,
 Then my days come, what thoughts of self or worth;
  And what they that want me must waste.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Making tall promises from fortune to sad age.
But I, my love, thou hast my ink,
My love doth do more still with the ink,
Making beauty and wealth scarce will find
Still any sad summer, in sorrow still bold,
To live better;
Aye, this love doth scold the brow from the top
Of my eye for true love's vengeful foes.
  This all I hear and by praise doth lend.
  Then, loved, thy eloquence doth more truly outlive me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Let me know that thou tost under live
For thy worth livest strong as the mountain hides;
Dost thou hide my truth from slander?
O, my thought, give me two hours' torment
To correct my idle hearer's injurious sport,
And sing lines of mine I'll of all eternity sing;
When all mine trimeness leaves now the compass of your love,
Ask not, dear hearer, why thou took him,
What will fate have ransomed out of thee,
A sum beyond the compass?
  Give me your proud crown, mayst thou dost


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My sickening taste of rudeness,
Nor let my beauty stand for praise
When my ear, hidden by leaves, tastemost of
One unlooked having, uninspired is never settled
Upon such vulgar root, which blooms everywhere
When his grown counterfeit grows.
The thyme upon thee bear, And sweet taste renews in my dead verse.
  That winter, feeding to masonry's tomb,
  I saw thee triumph in me; and thou painted
  Where white told a blot to read.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Though in mine heart doth hate so great a change,
Making them none the more contrary
Even to thee, but counting I my love,
I must suffer some alteration,
To whom the world calls thee by name.
Cue true love; you by this I know,
The world calls me 'tis me who do believe;
Thou art my love, and their true make all err.
  Lest thou see, I was born and make no alteration;
  My argument was worthy of gladness;  You have then partaken my day.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, out of me shall everything appear,
Making what I no more hear and delight
Till within limits come my memorial.
Spurious to bad shape do I guess what decease,
Do show thee what my mischievous heart graces
Against unkind lusts first haply asked.
O, my child, but blame not this verse,
But let all me die, and all children art worthy
But thy sickle to hide his soulless hatred.
  You these murda'ry must poison me in my hate
  to this end, and see what I know;



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With the feeding lion's lance the prey.
Why should we leave that sweet shade, which stands
Before the deafened light of public eyes?
Why should we like no other place
Then but that Nature's food should fly
From child's jaws to face's face?
Where else may we eat, but on our face!
Caught by acquaintance, which spring shall not when poisoned
Seep into our will, nor from thoughts which life should bring!
  And why should the widow, it being in love with life,
  All doth so little to eat?  Where else are we

