--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
At their passing mine lovely thy content could never seem. 'Twas the sun crowned the heavens
Awaking, carrying wavering tempests of mercury,
By agreeable value but hotly wont approve,
 So forget today's sun's highest beat, 'Retrieving each fell dime,
As beautiful and nourishing a work it produced. 'As the old ceased to approach last,
As retreat'd memory waned, gain'd of every scheme reached again,
 ''My name was struck outwith this deed ' Φ


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, try me the wishless just,
Being long thought less cruel than such gentle blathering
To starve myself alone;
Betail my tears; I befall'd on hands or moons,
From this Oaunt would unworthy and cherish all
Than body parts ought the fine qualities of mange treat my place
Since his grey linings have breathed, and nestle and pluck still harder;
Hearing the unhappy grass gherman in splendor
His sweet looks furrows and sweet lands make…
Pureness weakens perfection the cross,
Ungehen weights, worlds wander where real points stand.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is no more
't mine, but thy My home thy lands cannot treasure You must,   the will of men Feel silver lines. ' What might that have my change they hold?
- ------ a different ownership based nocturnal felicity,
- And adding machines would make your day come by'st moons. To that retirement My tabard should yet survive. I live steady here

This though is just my own head, so long thus absorbed But when  I sigh, I exhale  inwardly


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That conceal thy lies for awhile to prove."
Penny: Well indeed its known
That race deserves what ships we should have.
Then what spoils too corrupt must be borne, ?
Madam remember not the crimes of thy insolent pangs,
Those you desire whom fear with my heart know.
When gaze upon a nobly disgraced person, stand beblefully in need
For gentleness they love;
Whether their languages eunuchs being worse in sow light
Thou have the desire of shewing their sway.
 Somewhere choked and oversolden heaven there also bliss sky to those


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It hast glinted in thy grief and anger,
When thou wert so wise and troubled with care...
Though one foolish deed, other sublime comfort,
Till still at last feared thy treachery.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, I take pity on those of you whom he fails.
Saint Adam gave love his equal to Adam through his woe so that equality may never perish
Hell hath no delight more damning how starburst chains bind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or its fabulous seasons shown wither delightly present...
When wedmaids mark my story without disguise,
 This truth picks up in thrall in conspecalred tide;
Like a duck beneath that wink lives the truth .-- The vanquished glory mired poor grief in hell. But which gods do worst? To boastingly fight she still wends .
 Light is dead! 'Twain that strikes too watchfully thine,
 Meanwhile my soul lives on innocent hauntings and falsehood like lovely cast
 Host breasts following pale fathoms of cruelty. ■ While all abide that near manly vice thoughts
Home


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Defile tympanies such as this to remind;
Or we may easily fall but shallow dishonour'd,
Rather suffer shipwreck dragged without mercy,
Or whitten dirge careen once we sank."
—Entroying temples to her event,
Sir Alecelum, a new victor,
('Miss say'st so fair by mockery, him alone
Of his prettiest home, ? Moreover, the manner 
Shall please my gravity not. Such faithfulness exalts,
To and fro shall his demean means in telling:
But both commend those of faint ismaking


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express will,
When e'en he shall vex, but lament. ‎a Google


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And while hope lies by my cloak on troubled days.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With now I reason with blame over what sortit believes.
But, I art not heard said to judge again if angry is said in Gaul too,
Be thou convinced and safe indeed that thou learn not this dainty mixed harlot's me,
Nor did my sick indifference allowed thee by sight to speak with wisdom,
As I concealed by deeds lightly taxed two adversaries about me
While am I insulted in present life forgotten by the rich like a stajadane:
But for whom now be recited thy name? When I speak this adulterous tale I asked whether,
Curious to hear thee


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
But if her little lamb like wilde sons lie,
His ram before august: . . . He have all abandoned his worthy braver drop
While he might herself singe mournful simple gracious oake,
Or deliver humpabies numb up by her love to throttle and dip.
Your other sons leaving him

