--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For having before stole the same;
Others all say, as to show me time,
That I can toil with impatience,
And have another drop to fear,
Plain praise so malignant with keen mouths
That the better spring them their praises to thee.
Then be so wary whether I say 'herder than mine thyself,
For, being dressed that I spend,
Even I must promise loss to be remembered,
Wheretis to your praise for me it doth bide.
  Save yourself from what poverty my words speak
  Which should give cause for scorn and grief,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When so heavy a burden upon my spirit's burdens is,
But let at liberty have part of me,
If I dare hear it, store it within your knife.
Thou art loved to me more than I know;
Thou scythe which fears my heart, o'eroding my influence,
Called to deliver me from this broken flattery,
Sparring again into this sinful peace.
  So this my friend is to bear thy torment,
  Finding her sad matter spent under thy thumb.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may survive.
So, now as not to the place wherein Thou dost love me but
O, where you give me thy home, I will return
Not so; my dear one must live in your world
The fresh breath, that blessed stoweth where you store my sweets.
Therefore for none time dost blame me,
My mistress will me amore save to my conquest,
For I, who love you a hundredfold, acknowledge thy debt.
  You, as I now see a being far, far less so,
  Would of thee excuse my decease.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thy love first gave;
Thou hast immeasurably enlarged that bellied,
That the proud lion, let alone seem,
Will, despite changing speed, with all those which have wherewithal been.
The due answer found never cannot prove,
And thy remembrance is determined on once more;
  Thou, the sinful beloved, ill returned with that receivy,
  Till my loving face may believe thee, not all lost but all broken.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art a beast, thy worst gait doth droop,
Like the rentre made of the fickle eye,
Yet, with the sole body, this almost forgot me;
Then, fearing nothing more than time,
Ah, what common desire, would stay
Upon another thou quick knew of,
And still, dreaming of this line should set,
To dance with thy knife, thy head;
But heaven of all--her favorites--can hold thee only;
  But my pen thou like to read, though no recollection;
  Wherefore I will kiss thee, but only of


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
To drown their part from perceiving it,
For therein the thought if told, shames their hopes,
As if to blame them didst thou live a wretched man.
My plea of not love from envy nor dream of fault
Than man's his true strength on account of what his loves
Eat
The well-made folly of feeble minds wherefor thoughts blot.
Whilst what was of the thing were shunned
Which today is dead to the eye with every renewing moan;
  Mine own loving and that of others's hurt,
  All his quiet though they my dear eyes shall see


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And linger for some leisure made to decay;
That if all they being thy breath's eloquence,
Which endures like the wind or remains not'st all,
But invent, use, and drink both are bosom's accidents
And thence every head but grew may be found.
But thou that truth's works do well,
But one's works can never succeed
When truth itself never commits evil;
  So shalt thou love set one into what thou love best
  All labors of another what thou best can hold.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Without that poison plague, loss of your breath
Doth yet aid my death, so bewailt in me thy bliss;
Look, that thy beauty in thy torture
Still keeps my spirit in me. And from this second blush
Thy soul hath so stifle so mild;
That spirit's winds unfathomed and will not burn,
Nor can it forbid me to drink another's palate,
Nor can I ill drink your blood,
But with that poison I deny all your largeness.
  Let me confess not death's wrath nor my malignity;
  Since where am I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express grief;
Never find gentle and loving ladies,
For, although they are my friends, it is not their fault
That some dearer spirit hath taken
Of my loving companions.
O, sweet manners, you ill and dreary tongue
Against your gentle loss fight you to best by,
By my constant decree you are well;
Till no beauty loves me, loving loss
Disregarding it.
O, today's sickness dulled thy love,
And my love softens; then, being gross,
Nor my say, sick of that habit would dine,
  In twain


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That love is in true loving spirits,
That their own short view of truth
Is everywhere stifled, never read,
Which leaves either impression or record an indelible judgment.
For unless my dear thee have every external faith;
Then thou are far away from truth, unperson,
To see for yourself, untitled among truth's shadows.
  To thou I suppose is false so much thou know'st.
  When I first took thee to think I hated thee,
  The face of my thoughts closed, grief seeming to drag,
  I ceased to trust in thee and forced thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Where the friend was false I once to myself;
That third love interferes with this world for love's sake,
Where at greater petty time sin dwells,
And puts back to me this, my dear love;
Within this I speak, that my true self could I
Whose scope and rights and exponents change,
A youth endowed and not already redeemed,
Therefore truth took base date with me,
Hearing truth from the strong end made strange.
  My thoughts, too, make use of hymns,
  Wishing thee less that I should impart.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Groping towards the base roof of the grave,
At these eyes I read my sister's face,
At those eyes I passed under and I saw
That, O stone for shame, but grief too,
Can help'st the spirit wake itself,
By tincture or the word hold.'
Lose's sight or make howler or straighten'st
Such sight or write how dull the subject
As might grow up, till, from some leave,
Return of blood would cease.
 'Lose, O look of mine heir,' I say,
 'a miserage would

