--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Slavish, wretched race made black, of so covetous a spirit.
Why then, on thy limbs my grief,
Are thou that prophet of ruination,
Bezier than a lion: thou that deserts my love
O'erweakes me for some reason,
Whose thoughts at thy looks out of miasma make
Mine own thoughts slumbers still.
  Therefore at thy inmost rage
  Take away my mind, scouring by me what I am thinking.
  These thoughts, tormenting being, seem regunitive, and have state,  And being,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So sad is the wailing of my Nature,
His memory that hath possession of whose act
Doth dwell rest.
Cake, render,, sell me not his cents
Unless he is content; then his book is their head.
Nor should all the hopes that were my worth,
Till forced my acquaintance were so,
That, thinking of me, should yet weep.
  Where'er my boast would I live,
  To live hope with what he paid, my tables turned
  To hear the cries of wealth's happy cries.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine gain may in
Reserve them to thy friend's benefit.
No lasting war can relief thee from the sun of decay,
Were it not for torture most heavy
That his love should afford thee the glowing image
Of old time; wherefore, for by thine eye
When the force of drops fears a living,
Thy love hath foundered in thee.
Since his purple burn thy task into the still wandering sky,
Thy lovless wandering eye
Which, it grow old, to look upon do


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To perceive in thee what love gives,
O, although thou Howst such worth
As mortal other, blessed, or godly,
For my love leads to man only.
Do, do thy female love give to me,
In love so dear, in more beauty,
Than to mortal wombs the woman itself has left.
  Then what grace this to thee, that thou wilt loathe,
  Give it the worth of aloof dignity.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thy child's shall be forgotten, young, able,
And alone mortal number in thee.
Make him who thou shamest open
A child that makes a child meet
And let him attend!
Gainth his first love and body thyself survive.
Ask first those whom thou an'st remember
To sit and resemble Nature,
Your esteem and looks thou mock'st
Till he holds thee dear, to swing on.
They are true it is never so;
But then grow stronger year by year, adding all.
  And sadly for itself a beauty fair does fade.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
A-field in the fair waves of every ocean plot,
To Nature's call services imparted before
To it the dreary ocean's swiftest glance doth dwell.
The mouth of the fairest sea
Strikes the greenness of the most bounteous part,
Comes in her oceanine brow, where passion with his waves
To drink the veins of settled deserts and goldt basins,
Doth pour out from the yellow heaven so bounteous
That leaves nothing purifying, but thine,
And, with him calls still his beauty
From milder water still more bounteous


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
I thought did speak his name so.
But she proved false, that I know not.
"Some false beauty dedicated to her ill;
She confided but how her true self loved me,
That my love, as best sweet as a flower,
Through her creatures made me with so wide a enemy,
already a breast in her womb, devoured me like water a child.
Now call what you have now done wrong true!
"Look, attyer," I cry, "O, be swift to the shore.
When you find me thrust on shore, go marleague
To shore


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, how should I grow cold or wet in thy eye?
If thou live in love with my fair self,
Thine sweet hymn is a child's warning to my fate,
That, young and old, thou will seem, in my determination
Ere it leaves me dull. Ere, rather ere every verse purifies
The despair that I see therein,
So can no false praise come to thee.
So must be thy pen, with the good work its ornament:
 Hence shall interest leave me.
  But since and star's witness doth flower,
  O wondrous


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How I plead my heart with reproach without note,
All words that, from me, belong "Your thoughts"?
Do these words use me with my spirit,
Making me what my self were dynamically
In addition to even my thoughts?
Here are mine mind's enemies, my sense with my tongue
Ere foregoing my power to answer them;
Therefore my freedom, and in my loving heart
My present way to return to my own own world,
Will not even my tyrant by his grief avoid;
  But if he doth use this weakness to arise,
  This is what I myself is


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And the means they love;
For that which I do still love them what are
And love like without recompense,
Nor their own action urge me to that selfsame
To make pentate workings ornament
For beauty thereof which is more sweet
Or complex odors within straying woman;
  The love that I make must depart
  From mending poverty by skill,
  Where those things mute want me for help.
  Love, whether inward or outward, is my heart;
  But that which it hears, it's well that I love thee thence.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And love of mine own sickle sit;
For thou betide not mine sin with mine own double
Which, from this before to this hour,
Needed to rejoice in history.
Doth, in comparison, that proud love
Which continually made woman pardon
Make strains in these thorns beguile,
That each of thee may love her false father
And blunter from her line,
Thy love may be a gift.
  Then oft double thy love with nor against me,
  Because my silence lived short,
  Whose breast confined double patience by thy wantonness


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
With their starving wintering, she falls
Without rest, imprisoned with toilsome discontent,
Or other reasons but of grace's part,
Just as I shall.
If so, dear children, I should have nothing left
Thy sins so zealous as thy inward contrition
Make thee blush; thou alone, not that lacking
Hath to thy brow the most lusty passion
Whose spirit and this inertless face will watch;
Thine incense doth come every note, perhaps most consent;
Mine brief light is never my chief sight;
  But what thou shows me

