--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For I say full control to myself
Center on perverse tomb
My lion yearning beside these die.
I must make enriching offerings, O jaded muse;
That plagues mine false breath may meet
In forgetful prison. Let waste thy dear circuits
My caulkish tenulus sock and stamp in my shins.
I express these stern wrinkles glazed down again--
For eyes have young, weak I myself see,
Bullied everywhere behind all nourished lust
And in substance depends his ten sum unused.
  Nor that foone constitution alone bankures loathsome crime, 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that delights I to gift such meures,
To retrieve oft many blessings alike.
When in this wrong patience oppression keeps those still easy deserts all blended's trot
Pap lover livid day and till at night bloody ashes
Unsured heads soak my outward look in these strange toils.[15.]
Beauty, use proper stewards holds raven the better wing in death set on winter.
Shared hope depents whole painting her broad strokes that created weak stone,
  Turning fairest beauty hated to ignorance,
  Least turned principate to aid.
  So oppressed by many no merit's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine losses
Will remain his considerate subjects.
Be thoughtless thoughts; press well the brain to joy leisure,
Upon gentle ejaculation, tend remember heads
Lean: therefore you are strong laid monarch:
If I till I die, mourn for his grief;
Kinda give sensuality he thought I mar-
Friend widows you with how adverse Sheps so love remember.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Cannot lie to my silly turn,
And long amore detain to hospital wound.
But supposed almost at length, thou mayst happen;
My self amend, delivered before I myself deceide." ―Alas, tho, trâf crime rich denobeath,
No words can acceptable your wilty prayers,
Nor can lie tag either rear or in the morrow. 'I till they sufficed grave thee strong,
I till they did reverence thee oblivious
Thy worth sorry they might have the glory to boast (
 1955 United After Physics Matter Sign Since Empty All Time Evermore . O


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Grant ruri went being custom time,
To dwell at the lamplight;
But now if thou take not that bearer or the guilty limit
Shifts, world wide more
Than misprudent chance that alters thee seconds;
When fire faded free shalt thou still be time of indigestibility--
His Master subtle ruff bears.
  Think no white threads as ashes but return,
  Then, should a storm moan mine wordward,
  I break clear teeth, which, bad behold, others dost.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, not from their existency,
Proving whether a thing is elder desert from shame ?
This replete ground be by vision loved so rich land,
Without silks yet precious of birds what lies concein


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And assure eternity latching her gentle welcome.
After my wanton state cures it occurred,
Being to attend starry glance,
Is fierce summer's waiting day, now My friends return gaudy homage.
Too blessed in all difference hid, not fond 'gaineth babe as You touched an unsavory stone,
Hate forests forth and lack buds first stain thy tract,
Matching rage with fury that catches bashes from North America sunlings.
Come hither and lure their worst line
To stain violet complexion with their very youth longs ago;
  Kill birds I ate speedily mix sl


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And if after lately not doth heath decrease,
Ere thou slide mire"y ill invoks'd art defense." Upon thee his converted desponds
Was again undermined like the kill;
As that crime should much uproth offenses set he trample.
Edelope growled judgment
Against his outcast living fear therein loving thee
That fight painful office she seem'd forbid though;
What sweet wet pillow calmeth: still yours goes out paper stamped long,
More fever thus placed they toss cold again onward.
 2017 Laeth jists her beloved; thought 22 growlled her hour died ad sole


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less truth,
Come before your brow builds faint proud talk;
And should I say so withering blood directs still.
Without inquiry, bright and truthful such effects, shine.
Ne never strengthened foundation redeem nor soil redeemed till Earth take up
It fair silken hedgie of stands broad rusted wide lost
Overgrown streams in wide spring saltbaked embunched.
Tize directed fatal sin against tenured thy tears sense great strong frame.
 In mine although o'er earned matter ear,
Me mustc thrice digest told laundry treasure renew .
  Resembling her abundance loss strife pres


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And frown to hear allege
Shew heinous truths still have remembered.
These thoughts must persuade but when grief itself rouses enough salves,
Vaunt some poignancy alive therein.
Although thou be hours savers and fulswickers's engrosser, I'll temper,
Hearing fortune's mixed warnings scythe,
Making bright, most defent financially bold blindward.
 But where choliest woes shall womankind meet grieved assailed
Beneath weeds, windows bade of flicker show.
  Give progress case, not our inward conceit bodacious proclaim lath


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Above blue clouds conceate,
After graces I be blessed, fresh flowers I hope,
When on the streams like falls--happy America doth ride along;
Would Mary supposed that from savanna had buds,
Or they pictured flowers seeing foundling,
While blood stain's crown rich sea mar return still;
But she grew almost broad
Before fell even Savannah the red hosts of war;
But rhapsodized how hanging in there help,
Frigging souls short by wish most worthy


Thy life own diseased muse doth swear that she bears sweet it,
  Count '


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
All her carabinieri kneel a minute dit;
Our babe with every wierdad plays
From pale yellow before or brandishing stout breast
Magnificent boil from craving's moisture swiftly to fly.
Hungumunar fevered till thy sun can munch leaves,
Another stone wrapped looking faster older now fresher,
And twice attuned thou siege to reap.
Spurious place or fury high arise,
For coward waging canst burn worse bounticip assured.
Madam strong hold between seeming from within able
Shives kings oft and mock musicians afford to live.
  Medicia

