--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who, beholding my tears, do not dare to speak,
Doth in their love render all my woe,
By making me ashamed of their eyes.
They, therefore, do not so much make me poor,
As to be one with thee, but rather of their eye.
They, therefore, are their love's object,
That, as they are their love's cloak,
They may not but suffer it on their heart.
  Yet the sight of them that be make
  So vile that I do not waken them from their thoughts,
  Even so in thy sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That if I do, let it be not so,
For I love not your tormenting thoughts.
To say that I should ever hate you would be
Shall I not say that I love you more than your love,
And to say that I love you more than you,
Which, being sad, yet I hate,
Though I do love you more than you.
  This is true, dear friend; for I love you more than your love.
  This is true, dear friend, that I do love you more than your love,
  And that love that you would hate me more


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine should be
And with thee in this disgrace shall live.
O, thou art mine, I say, and I promise thee I will stay
The better; and so I live, but to a better end,
And yet, not being sure, I stay.
I love thee so much, my love, that I believe I shall be
And thou will no more, but I am not a false trust.
  Then thou shalt know I am false,
  Because thou wilt be what thou wilt be,
  I love thee so much, that I am not sure.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than, more than enough is thy love,
That thy soul will be so true that it shall say
That thy loving love is a pleasure,
Which shall not be hated;
But, that's too bad, that's too dear,
That's too dear to love,
And so shall thy being be despised.
  All this, and more, of my love's worth,
  Thine shall remain, and my love shall live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art my true thief, thy false thief,
For my true thief, like myself, will not be hid,
Nor shall I have it, nor be to myself,
Nor shall thou steal what thou stole.
Thou art mine own, mine own being,
And not mine own being's being's being.
Thou art mine own, mine own being's being,
And not mine own being's being's being.
  All this is my true crime, and none shall seek
  To steal my life.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they are drawn to the cause of it,
To make their present subject seem less
When in the most immeasurable state of being
They are once, and yet thou art mine.
I am, too, like thee; but thou, being far gone,
Wilt not deceive me of this, for thou, too, dost lie.
  I see thee, thou wilt believe me.
  You dost think I myself thou,
  When thou art gone, to speak of me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And bring me on the earth to some disgrace,
Or to some happy accident;
But if she is proved false,
My love's own judgment is me,
And my dear friend, whose joys so I love,
And who is she whom she knows not of you?
For though I live, I love you,
And in her I live the night.
  I have never seen her, nor thought of her,
  And I have never seen her forget you.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou lovest me, let me be thy pen,
And, in me, keep thy days that thou dost read.
Thou art, my love, the heir of thy crime,
And this in me, on my part, is thy crime,
And for this I cannot leave thee.
Since my love, my love, is not by my making,
But by my labors, my art, by thy love's use.
  Be my love, my pen, but not in me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My love.
But thou hast taught me that it is better to speak than to write,
Than to say, 'My love is what thou wishst,
When thou hast to say it by means of my tongue,
Or when I have no hope of it,
When I must write to my friend, 'My love is what thou desirest,
 'When I have no hope of it,
 'When I think I know thee'
I say, 'Mine love is what thou wishst,
 ' And that love is what thou needst.'
  This is what my dear friend,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love what I hate, being ill-reared.
When I see your wealth, but not mine,
Mine is like thee, as mine eye is a strange;
And now thou art mine, my heart that loves it.
  Behold, my eyes are to thee like thy lips,
  And I love thee so with my lips,
  That I do not lose my sweet tongue,
  But by thy sweet lips I keep my sweet thoughts.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My love of thee, that is, my love of thy loving heart,
Which is in thee so much more pure than all thy love's worth.
If thou wilt be the loving heart of all my love's worth,
I will forgive thee for it;
Thou art the more precious, and I am proud.
  For thou dost hold the love of me more dear than all thy love's worth.
  And that's why I love thee so much,
  That I love thee to my end.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let no child grow of thee,
And let him then be his pen,
And his verse set on time.
O, thou wilt be a poet,
And write, and read, and write.
Thou art thus the greatest poet of all,
The most poetical, the most profane
Of all verse, the most profane.
  Then, look, behold, thou art the true poet
  And most of all that is true is true,
  But most of all, thou shalt be true.

