--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
But as thou art, this I love,
And most of all, although so far as thou dost love,
Than I have no being.
Blessed are thou, then, for love's sole gift,
Which since I have alone with thee proves
Can be what thy heart dost desire,
And is in thee nothing at all,
Nor can that be thought of nor seen.
  And yet, yet, with love, it shows
  That love alone hath all this,
  Because it dost deny itself, and yet to love it still.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
How else to give a wife as sweet an heir
As my best friend, whose sweet love heals more.
O, poor man, where the love of my love is,
The heart of the husband whom I love sweetly burn,
And that therefore all his grief is love,
And hence I keep no account of that love's death.
No, that which doth my own hurt lie,
No, that which doth mine be my body's content,
That all my fair thoughts be his 'cause
With what thoughts I send, or what thoughts they think,
  That therefore I suppose


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may make
The king's death. But of all my fears, none is more
Than that thou hast sin'st me that's not,
And let'st the love of thyself come where thou wilt,
And from that dear thing I will live,
And thy love shall yet live, though that my fears seem
No longer there, for I am in love
And in thee ever shall be.
  I have no fear, no grief;
  And it's not that I fear that thou hast told
  That I love thee but thy being.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than too much will thy loving heart bear
To tell my beauty to wit or steal.
Her heavy heart will my thrall;
And let it show her my beauty,
Shew'st to her purpose that thou dost give her,
Gets thee hungry, and shew'st to her purpose thee.
Therefore love thee to her, thou thyself,
And love her to all thy heart.
  " So much more love me that thy love doth lie,
  Than thy will is that thou wilt love me,
  And I will not think thy love but mine


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
By this thy soul's churl thou are'st,
Thou art this counterfeit; thou, drunk of some lusty strife,
And shabby, sensual beauty--
Whose dusky dark gaze is so sharp that it doth change
The sun, moon, and stars.
  Even then thy soul perceives
  That I am that which thou dost look on.
  I must, therefore, not be dumb, nor out of joy
  To make thyself a fool.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And nothing doth the shape or color alter
That it so doth see, so say they.
But thou, what beauty dost thou me so desire,
By what beauty dost thou believe that thou art,
That thou hast that beauty of mine eyes,
And so, by thy love, behold the world,
And if you see not what thou see,
That dost thou believe in what thou have
That thou art my self?
  That love in thee gives me my self no part,
  But thou, what love dost thou allow
  To be my self-love


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, having first deceived me, she would have given me my cloak
That still more more true knowledge
To steal my love's blood.
But I have no such hope,
Because, being so deceived, she deceived me
To steal my heart.
I do not believe her though I know she lies;
I know her not because she is untrue,
But she was deceiver with her own heart,
To steal my love's blood to steal the truth.
  Then, as for all those things I do believe,
  They are all true, and all men lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, nor with thy own body nor with thy breast,
Thy pen hath made my delight, and my blame,
As thy teeth did when thou dost weep,
Which, since thy tongue hath made mine, hath proved mine
Not to be  Wrong.
Though thou my blood be mine, yet dost thou eat
  All thy love with me, and not with thee.
  To this love it will answer,
  That, by this love, I was with thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My self-loving thought.
When thou art afraid, let me entertain
A view of the world to whom I have no part.
Then, as thou art, do not hold me in thoughts
To some shadow of your kind, nor make me look
Like a poet who looks from thee.
Thou art ever my friend, and ever my friend is I.
  I must not call myself "blessed,"
  but tell thee, 'My love is so large that I am,
  To thee, and to thee, and to thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my dear love that finds fault in them.
Since by thee all have their beauty,
Thy love hath all truth, in thee all errors.
  But you believe, being a deceiver,
  That my love is right, and no faults can lie.
  So, being your friend, I will not steal your heart,
  All that I owe you is that I know you love me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, in thy beauty, thou art,
Which, on thy grace, I am less in love.
Thou art my recompense, my subject;
Though then thy blame is mine,
Which, in thine own true love, you were not in love with.
O, my love, if I were weak,
My love would not be so weak,
For thou alone couldst put my heart in that state.
  Hence I will not bear false witness,
  Being dumb to thy word, to be again blamed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
To a curious end the wretch's happend;
To her did appear his largish prize,
And poor wretch with raven's limbs,
And dazed woe with all the rest of him.
No, not so, not that she should not count,
For what a day's short store of tears hath she to weep,
She more than she will once know how
To find out why, when she is able.
  She needs no excuse, for if she do,
  She sheds tears of her loss, which, she growths,
  To the thief's sweet

