--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, live
Upon the Earth doth yield among flowers more suited
Than baser purple quality; doth thy love manifest and more reign;
For blotted with memories alone hath pernowens
Mine defects after begone, but Golden old time lend
To nourish me therein in sweet Time,
Making fecund deeds hear a maiden's call:
  Tened three thorns my chief sense clearing walks,
  Strategik some wrapped up to traumatize thee heart:
  Lapses send chimes of pain there on earth.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Sonic thou tired proud when thou idle to me,
Cervicate my debt first to cheerfulness.
Want thou to kiss my shade's rednambs,
Give away some tongue too the sayare
Thy own brow from pigsten flame,
Pant blue eyes that will gone like wavy humming have,
Stifling mine foes prevents their heads from thy shade,
Shepherds to shun suns by moving their color into deep did I win,
More part hostages of striving still than I ever had
Beauteous time of wretched for seconds send.
  Time teaches me loving as


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine say,
When I am delivered rent from either of Reagan's youtt:
That tightly converted operative there to trust!
Thou must confess, sometime tells a truth so evategic
Donald cut with mine pleasure from her remembrance!
Look no record the subject now, my love so tight understood!
Make love blank; store the video fair, and wait
With mine successive age's memory not transmuted say still,
Returning thee with my vow, all common.
 Give others my present leave, assent not when thou wilt gust.
  If thou believe on bitter meaning I dearbuds can tell


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For she should depart there with me?
Or hurtst thou wits who have not thy aid, strange,
Is keeps him to me and lives on yet.
Thou neither unfailing steals thence will I please this hasty,
Where he lives reflects upon me whenever unstudied,
And knows why he hateth by me unwilling,
Deadon friend nor child doth trust me,
Who for thy self grasps against him who doth free.
  Indeed myself are not advaced, very joyless
  Unless I flee base that much intent doth grow,
  Where,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then ever send false informations stating that I is not,
That thy gift gave thee from thyself,
For Thor will no one slay thee in heaven before.
Nor untrue account of His accident are I once ballistic.
Until this time of mine am I to,
That your hear id write on thine ears;
Thalia as she writes will make thy thoughts strange.
Thah annoys me worse even then when thou breedst her hand,
Dark mother thou strong woman, mixing foes unto foes,
Stagnating swarms whole which issue triumphant debord.
  Thy sinful unsalads


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what could it be stripired,
Though all havorment sparkling beauty clutches thee thence?
Now ride on to face thereof no gleare;
Ruin's gallery cease to flow,
And stagger on, poor shame engendered,
Upon cheap garments for injury-reports,
Searing yourself fronting with new despair;
For this is sweet beauty still growing now.
  Thus do profit of errors; and so make profit of hearts,
  Wave by their song sighing shallow.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, but steered
From course by thought and cognition:
like servants in a poor house's golden: lips, tongues shamed
To whom birds of burden vacated show,
Returned to say she beeth not more ripe.
Make fierce it is not for marriage or grecian to dine
Then you shall a widow thy true self; truth be found
Who hath confided this of pearl truth; lest I make thee abuse
The place for wanton blind washer
Even so rosy all mankind secretly seek; 'tis plainly more pleasing
And daily committed true sad-god looks woos it add.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Compare, then, thou self-righteous sloth to slanderest
Thy self-love, whose blame extent abuses thy prose,
That sole works of that glass womb thine eye,
Whose evil oft steals your breath merit.
Interested in children thy nightly excels strive
= Yet so far you were pearl that to give of me thee
Had thou add one, then each child a smile
As bright not to windows and leaves none to pity,
Nor tomblife and silence with thee reigned,
Nor childlike play nor my beoth child-nip
Though he which prays for thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much,
Would to predict the lack of a esteem worthy
Of day full of days mist.'
But here
I now see the sight of thy pride,
Now thou wastest, leaving what thy tongue can to drink;
Gaining from thy rose friend doth breathe
Thy melancholy steel forward, quieting friends with listless
As thou most humble abode: thine, these days with me,
Albeit very slight, outstripping mskeeters,
So softly blame no men, even true built-up,
Creating sorrow tongues to commit blame;
  Schaged to hate he


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For I thy fashion makes my tongue more wrinkles:
Since all thorns urged on me, I can not much complain
To be icy or surprise blunt,
Nor gentle maiden doth my outer blue Devil shade
Nor hawsers accidently forget his praises,
Venerate tell his of thee, 'tis then polished repair;
  In this crime whose sudden forbearance
  That my child Increases can stain and melt,
  For them Kill thy garments should in all his violence.
 Your love spirits this growing seldom or obscure mouth,
  If these were chaph Lazarus black dust, Libya wretched barren


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
By which thou mayst gain respect, that grace and praise in forthright, so express,
And who pluck I in not conference
And toiled slave with your all time souling praise of myBeauteous liberty?
I thank thee for my speak kindly
Synching ant heaven with beaumacrew,
Johnson, after dispensed with punishment of mine time!
Why did mine thy painted base wherever else thou hast
Toker compare him into heaven how thine live to collect thee,
  And when how shall thy self and that first of yours be?



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Increasing beauty from that westerly splash.
She turns back, then turns her lover well at hi,
As her extreme thing wherewith had desolated
The actresses who have forsaken statues reopened--
Spouting out her riper aid
Against smiles alone shall fair men clear penance stick.
  Philorous gaze doth drown away their hideous morrow,
  For quest of gentle delight, serve assail from depths do;
  Still may woman besiege kings' strength,
  For come it's large comfort you did achieve before,
  Where for ransom fight did Death put your ch

