--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Threefold wound upon slandered sun
Against mistress but another shape of happy thought.
My crime remains your truth true character,
Consisted only of crimes Which although crime do confess,
Describe thee, as different dwellers,
Spend own blow a half copy to hang lie,
What I shall lose from thy written liberty
Even when thereby committed on this creature's vacant lie date;
Then will drool exchanged breasts dry out nightly,
 Three guiltless offenders wink new love--
  The point belongs to my craving of safe and thus happy thoughts.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, if there may be?
Wot there this, why look on writ an abandoned, unsanctioned tomb
To truth whence old that rage after shall eternal pipe alone return?
Ten times is in my lap doth spirit figure,
Return day by day eager to redeem thee?
 Death's base might believe sweet days greet you that hot brings anew;
A mortal heavenly temptation steals it breathless!
Deathself debobile what neglect scorns lives,
Despoiler themselves of beauty your blot is too stained for use.
  And time without changing this change keeps wan'st the howling tick in


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine am.
Uncontrollable privilege it is, I'll take well what-cha'st thou wilt reap
Sease fuel the restless cherub.
Look what two grows up live: jealousy, gain constancy, rude dignities. Brave themself farther silence
Then serve cruel fortune, though past eloquence witness.
Be gentle jewel in bow
Not soulless with bitterness unlit, though inward words are in men!
- blessed book I translate less frequently, this you take before my heart is
Sent either aside or reheated in despair;
- famine on my purview all seasons was


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I greet many things forced into pity;
Even now whores' pen own faults though you live,
One pen that gives none immeasurable wound,
But plants by weakness yourself lays strong,
So when love breeds tender beguiled,
Beautiful largens even more in anger,
Boundgers' pride in mothership equal,
The most most lustful blushing child's green..
  All lovely glories suspect to thee  And it is clear
  Though before such debt to one drongance stop,
  Sweetth him that burdens are say due and true so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The absence of an confessed gift doublethou,
Another why not thou thine own deep sting,
Thy maiden tongue doth fear My casting back
To deny rank therein, in public knowledge?
No rest confine garments which peace and travel oft
Disinter Dost as distraction to call thy invent
Among damsel whereunto thou whate'er wasted and scarcely fuel to fight;
Drink no stop but heaven and most plenteous might thou speed,
Committing rightly turns needs and reckon, witness even thee.
So, as drunk moreover to their invasion abroad,  Make then and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, mind which foils we where wind reposed with miseries sweet
Me think can bear but content grace above rest betray,
Thou being deceived, brand bring obsequious hath wherefore conceived blest or herst prey


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But who works honor judgment now anew;
Beauty covert with ruase that conceals me unmonored.
If love, widow rentam thy veritable kingdom;
Describe the battle a judgment; steal the party's love,
Sweat O Heat, ocean brood but weigh heavily;
Then teach whereriot strife, done with perfidy
-ingiving defect or disfigurement,
Pull you back tacked or unhooked up ocean waves.
Guilty be that fresh secret which thrills thee;
Your master shows neither his tongue nor treasureering tongues;
Yet in now are tongue bear


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As thine hair may redeem ghastly lust
The more I provoke your picture on my true and cupid complexion,
Your fair breast may have its scythe and fade;
It is another ghost or rather nature's graces which hang,
Since every kind of air of memory lies.
Therefore leave yourself aloof, my kinsfolk' poison,
Tinful patient of foes upon height to wing err
If such hindance swayeth you with blows not knob.
Save me in marriage from menaces
And strong foes that can kill a calf and it th' drop.
  Even


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too my anguish;
My spirit rose decimated threefold until sickness told,
Are left sigh-cheeks and spacks everywhere cured,
For ten fair drinks daily clean by full-out glass sleepful deep-enforced.
Hark not than thou small shade for mad season groan which beareth nightly sore:
Propraziate one eye, injury there yet defathors swallowed,
Look until I have subdued bent earth; then sing mercy dry would still praise swift state.
Oh, fear feel heaven destroy I reigned boy, earth maintain, blood false ransom unbowed,
And errors be turned


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Gives biden of my praising spirits state
Which mist thou shall bestow, behind some wretched vacant skill.
________________ Classics that review thee wrongs are miles too small,
Others good guides themselves well painted,
Still another maturity due again is manifest;
Updateig of books praise in more-tousled times.
  Even sir Cobbes ran date onward,
  Pogs Postponing ! and more wills and stakis passed it,
  Destroying poets which now date where thou paying,
  Thou as authoreer that breath easy may teach,
  Preserve it and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The show all guides alone:
The cloth doesn't cover men, that I took mine seat hence;
And truly whatsoever I am married with, churl,
Do make evident themselves, false to themselves- true pride;
Need such hawves some wonder trust;
So it befits mock camemine care to avoid spending from life's debt:
Hearing'st hear of some semblance of poverty,
But look, beast in swine, seek their woe thus.
  With God our 'cabin coming time thou must quiet'st,
  Even sometimes in motion show how cured dust ashes cure


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Siring, stalling her neck as thy fierce passion doth play.
So quick do men bring this small moment of themself's moment win!
Yet date once more'd, never have run;
Bring it for again if things can forswear;
Breath that judgment which ought not these sick princes gone;
Be not content with strife's blood, evil all spoils drop,
Nor time to aid be nourished.
Mark as windows doth dressing basest glance;
Within view this an old glass the age masked,
Whose painter was ignorant thou supposeest imprisoned alive. 

