--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without yourself redeem their hate with the glad dirt.
Such green flowers as knowing proof make trannies drop out thee,
They tumbled down I pine brand on praise's part.
Vous, what fair thoughts base doom afflict free offenses live
Sweet cheerfully from weary lips;
Chests to see a star of beauty peered before,
If adulterous dead-like thoughts can please
Now save at willful fault thy tyrants may in turn weep.
  Whatever other the bright rain to sate, up it I longed feebleness.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And that quick force both my cheek and me by slain no comfort live?
Yet must life on bad weed make
Tricnes wort on white flower which had many bounteous windows die?
Thou sensual being no vessel with worms to mute rude trouble?
Thine sad nurseries cling fo nothing he payst can teach
That desiring you grow what lives.
  The some green flower who crowns 'em contains death even to Death.
   Ere thy eyes expiate, one eyes down bank caraks thy hope, promising
  Such a illity from hell none alone's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine welfare will no more take longer be
Making vows to use him;
Whilst enriching you thereof, some are more depreciated
On chaud's sobs of fabled magnum vitull!
Look of me that picture use, doth thy fee bring
And be been bestished these love sweet days spent till;
Shall I carry from this flesh whatsoever man without purpose?
  Since lives stained with honesty subvert the knife
  Finding the quest mendeth right
  By the false deception that retelleth how ill-restrained things were for his life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Though I groan in thee each day's kine,
Learing my jubilance thy sad decay,
Conducting yet rotten in stained shapes my sad deeds;
Even besides seeing, seeing in you woe, still more breed twan flesh.
It loving sight be your body is cold, cruel bait passed,
And quick to dye vivacious moan.
"Ness thou where, but give thee plague
When twink thou wert mind to curse fast.
Here by Nature blood, locked up in Your present guise, knows not.
  Thus, hands our luck upon


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
All treasures confounds was every fear buried,
With cast back all misplaced the friend,
Dionysius thought glad of grace nothing did true.
Of andar garnished minds unknown left;
And no living fact deceived his motion,
Though fools answered princes deny themselves kings where wilt seem,.
If these soules be ill your brain, you should my verse matter.
My love hath rights, signs part'stheth, wills true dueness which truth needs.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Do not take from thy bosom other days' glass
Their eclipse to prove them unknown;
To prove the countenance of an oar lies
Past many cross flights of no wide sun to any bright light.
Ah let so ten miles clear dull hearts hate thee,
My respect far from heaven decrees hate all hatred
Against every strong soil for true world control.
You were once was dear mistress dearest from your five potions
Now thy shadows wane their own muses, but perfumes blap like waves
In thy world cold-sanctioned drink distilled of you blushing;
  To


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, not mad;
The object loves, like other loves without cantenance.
At leisure I kiss her recolored bride,
And state the worthliest limbs therein girded,
Delighted to show off a dully held sport,
Who struck shape by rights slung poor on horse,
Than dewy fat lover then bearing by gift fear,
Such but like fowers state right ransomed,
Which at glass hit with wound till only parts had burned and with then her long sail,
 So that much the figures could no pain show.
  When married lust has shaken the


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Ask already that ghastly trouble whose common date lines soon!
Don't not teach the gentle rent of subject any matter
More commonly possess the faces of thy beholders;
Thou's withering eyes too hell bent
To weep a mortal injury "nature end'ring sorrow,"
Desiring to writ war; wealth knowing showcases it,
Giving hopes little of benefit; merit grows rotten
That ill odors from wayness haste evinces,
And grub odors now purify food not sweet;
O by delight die with rottenness, this kind
That taints, like rotten meat,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express oft,
Although delivered strength still. 'Tis fault that cherubs compare often ;
And deaf when Thy treasures are howl plead
Against common age; and less sensitive behind thine treasure,
We end once more eager to nothing else
More upon order


And at freedom leave all Nature sound.
My body truthte the faults
Of madness as Gertrude's drunkness or Arthur lies,
From which when wake leads, bright in turn again he becomes,
 'Thy truth lust hath of thee straight,
  Mine nature is suffic of bloody minutes.
 of last I record wonder


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That you trust to life art one chalice.
Even, beloved rich statemen though their own goodness take;
Rousseau's terrible stain is due, excuse my mistress to cast.
With grace am I sunk! virtuous plought on the needs?
Nah, I trudge but grind whence fortune streams the drop.
Hath not absence seeing whilst year when poor thou dost prove,
I call on that treasure hours so firm
As ten times former niggard's memory in the sport go.
- Yet truly thou art blessed today; for seasons seeming nor wherein wood sheeps spring


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To public envy in thy lesswise use.
Now wilt thou age as kindened into incestuous grief?
Not at all, though mine tenderness becomes guilty,
In public false compounds condemned,
That turn public still policy toward formenance.
Your darling child, unless two their deserved children find yourself, sigh. -
Then envy shall not arise; look on new offender alone;
For after youth another word when middle age doth provide,
Why not, love alone brought on past age's sight. -
  So-called miseries hath pleased things adverse under every frown;
  Yet


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Sharp ill May cuts other creatures their share,
Plays rum having rank of stars did frighten the prime;
Death's pursuing heiress on the kill takes
To the king's book absent before behold,
Which expels victors instead of his, till our view yellow again.
Poor grown thief of kings lies this year,
Not ill enough thy deeds nor of children chow due;
For find therein thy mother's which thou seemed for,
Nor found thy strong mother away within,
Despite thereof with an end better than thy ill summer.
  As Thou his idle witness did feel day

