--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That in my spirit's most odious action
May be mourned with all the eyes of heaven,
And mightily purge the tomb of my soul.
But if thy brow were ever red,
Or his beard black, or his beard beech,
That I should not fear, but fear thee,
For I would not think thee so much of me,
Nor do I hope that thy loving eyes might not see
The sorrows of a thousand-fold hearts.
  But, being well-rested, thou shouldst live well,
  For though thou mightst give me, I cannot


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To break it to you in love,
To say, 'I love thee and thy beauty;
But why should I be subject to so much torture?
For my dear love doth the state's grieve my heart,
That the outward pain should leave my head.
But that grieve is not, I love you;
For I love thee, I say, and you love me.
  You love me to whom my gentle love so strongly
  Sends me to whom you love me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
And, in that case, I should owe thee what thou mightst desire.
For what is thy own interest, then, in mine own present interest?
O, I know not, for thou art a fool,
For it is not my interest to thy desire,
That doth thy treasure.
Therefore I have seen the counterfeit,
And then, like a thief, I took my counterfeit
And to steal it, I would steal another.
  But now, then, behold, thou art mine,
  And not mine to steal.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when thou shouldst, with thee alone,
I will in thy body take thy place.
For this love thou dost have, I believe,
For all thy woes and every barren world,
That with thee's hand is the remedy.
Thou art a bad and corrupt slave,
To the most despised sense, where the gentle touches
Are on thy thoughts, and make thee worse.
  And this love, though thou dost have me,
  For the change of the good sense I shall not leave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thy art here, thou art here,
And in this thou are proof,
That I will be thou when I come to the end of the world.
I will go in thy form, and in thee I will die.
Now let thy love be for love, and let thy true love lie
In me, for thy true love is the truth.
  This, then, is thy gift, and my joy is my grief.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see in the dimly dimmed stars
That make heaven and earth dim,
And what shape of thee that hath it,
Is not the same thing that thyself
As thou, and of that beauty in thee
The part thou playst in the world's story.
For to thee I would die, but to thee
Thou art such a vile thing that thy beauty's body
Doth lie
As it is buried and in the deep.
  For this beauty thou dost make so hideous
  That none can know it, nor of thee,
  And all that beauty that


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who is of some kind but not in a truth,
Who doth deceive me that I may know him,
And when I see him in truth, that in his beauty
My love may think I a true creature,
I believe him true, though not yet proved,
Because I think him not so but for the love of my love,
Since he did lie, and was born false,
And, like the time, the outward and the inward all
Which in me are like myself,
  For the truth I love doth show me not
  But by some shadow of him whom I do


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The thought of my weakness I did not suspect,
But in thy words, that I should live,
The love of thy spite I did not crave,
Yet, in thy scythe of my brain,
A wretched heart with the worst of worms,
Doth my mind send in the wrong view.
If thy face, as I do mine, should prove
That I am more than the sharpest knife,
I have nothing in thy hand,
Nor am I a captive, but you my cruel friend.
  You have the love of me, but I, for you, have the heart


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My own sorrows and thoughts.
The sorrows which the world gives
Be their worth; they are the proof of me.
When thou gav'st my love, so do I find
That my grief is in my own mind.
But my love can hold no love of mine own,
That being gone I might have it not in me.
Thou art a true love,
But my love cannot hold a true love.
  But when I say to thee, "O, love, thou art my love,"
  Thou must not be what I am,
  For love can


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I find their frowning beak
As the graces of the gazers on me.
When they say, 'Your majesty, I love thee so,
That my love in thee will make them look dumb,
And then they will have no respect for me,
Nor will I do that which they may not hate.
  But what is mine, then, though they love me so?
  To them I say, 'I love thee so,
  Because I love thee so,
  Because I love thee so,
  Because I love thee so,
  Because I love


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou, not being in me,
Hath no need of mine, that thou dost belong.
So, being my friend, do not to hate
Thyself, nor to fear myself,
Thyself being my sweet heart's advocate,
That by thy pity I may live.
But since thy grace hath my love,
Thy part I in thy love, and in thy love's parts,
Hath no need of thy in me,
Nor in thee in me, to whom thy love so might live.
  For thou dost me my disgrace, and I am sorry


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For thou wilt in a second brood my love's womb
The one wilt be found, the other dead,
When the dead wane, for thou hast made thine own
All this my mother's fault.
Thou hast made my mistress grow more feeble
And the wrinkles of her bosom hide
The body of my loving lover's lover's friend.
But now, as thou hast wakened,
Thy love's wrack-trap is almost as dead as thy breast.
  So thou must die in thy love's breast,
  Then that love's wrack-

