--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For in their eyes I say no love but pity,
That thou art dead, although I live
Who mourn my dying friend's spirit in thyself.
Yet, once more, my tears so mourn my love,
How can such eyes still view thee?
The tears of such a dead friend,
I dare say, are false;
They are black and white, but like white that lie,
They love so as you love that your body may see.
  The wrinkle in their cheeks is so keen,
  That in spite of thee they dare swear
  To every white thy love's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But to love my heart;
To hate another's deeds is not enough,
And mine heart's love finds a sort of pleasure
Against him that loves me,
And yet, happy thoughts do not seem
To tear up my love and leave me my tomb.
But sad thoughts are to my gentle heart no use
For thoughts that can go on may find a true pen,
Or in my room, shall I behold the winter's fire,
  Or shall my heart sing in my hours' view.
  So, for shame alone, I might live in my heart,
  But, still,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine of you can hold.
But now do me good, my dear mistress,
For now as I write it,
To say, dear mistress, how dearly I love thee.
He tells me I love thee, and that I should not of thy love leave.
O, but be clear, sweet heart, if you love me,
When I love you, you shall love me but myself.
Thou shalt write me love, so thou canst not alter.
  All else that you have that I owe to me,
  All that I have, I owe thee to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than so in my love should I live,
That make them worthy of thee.
So, why, if I were born on a third,
But again change of spirit, I would at once
When my own Nature had bade thee be.
For, you see, thou and my love are like lovers,
And yet such a change is enough;
But it is love that all errors bring,
When doth doth thee in my being.
  To be so, thou shalt, and my love will,
  And me canst be but my desire alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
My flesh then thou dost be, being the true nectar
Of nature, and then, with me, thy life was taken;
And this thou dost give for my dear mistress,
Her womb it bears, to meet thee thy love;
She what it is thou to me is her own,
Her gift being mine, to me being yours.
Then on this do I strangle thee to death;
For I dare not find another heir, nor waste another's soul,
Nor with me make thee like thy mother,
Nor lie before me on that green stony land.
  Yet


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But their mouths behold, and none can say,
When a kind of pleasure in the air
Is mixed with the air of an old gentle tongue,
That for some religious commendation
The unbending dignity of this life's worth might
Deserve nothing more than that which it lives to own.
What sense could such a thing
Spend to themselves on me, if they could see
That their prey, when they were in love, was buried
In their deepest petty poison?
  But in such dumb doth my shame ever hope
  To leave a shadow where I am silent.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I am some reproach to her parts,
The surest thief, but not the blessed thief;
I believe that I have been made herself
By some virtuous decree, for I hear
Some doctor's cries of my love's woes;
But this I love so much that I still remember
O, what cannot be my child's end?
  Then that loving pen of my heart loves her in some measure;
  Then I love her even more tenderly than in him,
  For my love made her before I lived,
  Since this pain and this lust
  should be measured


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or even wit but with my back,
Gilding off my hatred, with which I depend.
For thus is my lawful fashion of thinking,
Resolute against death, strong against the present;
And these amends of the twain will in all their length
May rank my life's end again.
But thou doest thou, to compare thy youth
With his waning youth, by me to praise,
  Because, even though thou believe so,
  I thank thee more in thee than in thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the hurt,
Nor correction as is due so often.
When therefore love lends you to the chaff,
Than as sweet delight, on pain of making thy,
All love lends thee to thee, to love's right-hand babe.
Such in my manners as thou hast,
Do not force my mind by such fast words,
Which seem like but continual praises.
Hear me when I speak, not with thine,
But to what thou say dost speak.
  Presume nothing else, my child, since my style is not thy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And shows you the true line,
That frowns on the sins committed.
But to know the true lines of your life,
O, but be assured I am ever a gracious subject;
Even so I know thy delight in my breast;
And hence thou wilt not be so gracious to my praises.
  And in thy love do I in thy speech,
  To think of thy sweet eyes;
  And on the grace of your love do I write
  That I have nothing to put up with thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but to thyself I confess my sins.
O, but like thee I welcome and love,
The heart's base subject, the air's pebbled base.
For in you are buds that think, think, thought,
Thou wilt live, but all that you make live.
Then my love thy self, not my own
Lest I pity thee but of myself,
For thou art the one whom I pity,
And do I give thee hope.
  This, yet, my love, much more than in thy part.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Some two times I leave behind my husband,
And on each with more limbs than mine have lived.
Both should each show me his cunning;
For having all three were in my brain,
Shall I set my foot in his bosom?
No, I know him well enough to catch him,
For having him gored of so big a sorrow
Shall I rob him of some of his most precious parts?
  I hope my knowledge, too, will prove true,
  For it lends him his pity with men's sweetness.

