--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which seek the most salve of the sun's rays.
For not even a mother can render thee all happy,
And for my true love and love's sake the sun shines
And ill brightens all things which it may see
Which make thee bad.
Then, therefore, do not boast that thy love is in some disgrace
Or that I am ill and that it gives thee a bad name.
  This love must be found in thee, in my soul,
  And therefore do I love thee in all my outward looks.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or tell my story of the days, or say what I saw,
Or, if not, plead with my friend how I might be
When my mother's bosom were upon mine eye.
O, but let me weep for thy love,
And it is true that thee is so dear as thy husband.
Hath love so much in me,
But, despite of it, I love thee so much that I cannot leave thee.
  O, woe to thee, thy love, if it be barren.
  And as thou didst love me so, so can I.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might bear
On his ransom for his part, in my own respect.
I find myself of thee that you want to know
Of thy nature and therefore, if not, I hope, thou must hold on.
For if I stay in you for your sake,
My wish will be so much worse than your, that thou, being my love,
Is so much farther removed
From me as from your of mine own heart
That to you I shall lose it.
  You and I have no love but one and the same
  To each other and therefore have no love but of each other.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For yet are thou not I, and thy mind,
That, though my thoughts be sweet, still is sweet,
The prey of his thoughts;
Thou, my loving love, in this love shall bear
A worse woe than that which is bequested,
For where the graces of thy beauty are,
She doth bear, in him what lies most dear.
  But that woe is so poor and so rich,
  And so that, by my love, even if thou dost love me,
  The spirit is no happier in me than it is in thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For this reason I can no longer suspect thee,
Which I, the sweetest ear, believe to be dead,
As thou dost dost leave me, for there is no soul to bear thee,
And yet thou art to be buried.
Thou art but a tomb that shall no longer be found.
  To thee it is still, not to me, but to thee it is
  All the strength of my heart to render thee so.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And beauty alone doth give,
A fairer complexion to this cloak of crime.
To those for whom beauty is in abundance,
Hath that frown and love I show
Thy love so dear that thou shall not say,
A true beauty doth show thee thyself,
Nor yet to thee I can show thyself to be.
  But to myself I know that beauty is doth show thee.
  I love thee so, love, that I love to die.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some other from whence I first rose.
I do not even see her in thy sight,
And yet I suppose that in her eyes I am.
The outward grace of her beauty shines,
And all that is that about me shames me,
Though I forget my own eyes, the beauty in her,
Doth in my seeing the shadow of thy false self.
  Then when I saw her with the eyes of men,
  All my fears were with her, for that fear I had
  To see thee that I do love, in truth.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou, upon thy pen, my subject,
Why, dost thou with thine eye,
For my bad habit dost me away?
Ask me whether I myself were a rich thief,
Or, if I be the thief's crime,
How much of what, if I be your prey,
Why were I in that state
When I stole the treasure of thy self-same?
  I am not thief nor thief's child,
  But whether thy crime be done,
  Or whether I was told by thee that I did.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy graces, yet I love nothing more.
Mine eyes are stained with shame,
Thy eyes are my eye,
That though thou be loved best, yet my love is not
Thy love's sight, thy glance, nor thy speech.
Thou shalt not the sweetest seat, but by thee shalt dwell.
May I not fear my grief, and thee
Thou the best that I can.
  Be in love with me, and I will hold you.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis my brow that to adore thou dost deem
Not mine own to hate, though mine eyes have seen
Which are seeing my eye's sweet view of thee.
If, therefore, thou shouldst be my friend,
Thy eyes do not see, but thou that dost see
O, yet of all thine, eyes thou withest my soul.
  You that I think to love thee,
  I do not love thee with mine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou art willing that the critic should cover
When I find myself filled with faults,
But, as I was in the sun to the east,
My heart should be bent on being more perfect.
Thou art like the true, where all lies;
Thou hast the evil of the world, and so I am,
By the true I'll return, if I should break it.
O, then not being with my envy I will then lose,
  That my love for thee might my pride;
  For that is my disgrace to thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Let us not keep flattery on thine eyes,
And blame our foes on our weakness,
For our difference is too strong to be blamed;
But let our lesson be taught that we love the friend
Of others, that we shall not so do.
As a fond love so strong
Than strength keeps you alive, so well do we love each other.
  Yet this may not be done, for what's right is not.
  You are all the same; your love is as strong as your love,
  And our true love is like strong steel,
  And so weak

