--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
They hold the hand of thee, like vipers in me.
Be sad, lose yourself, and see what disgrace
Than I will make if thou take my eye.
Be a crow, and doth not weep if I should
Be heard with thee, and say, "What but thy weakness,
Hath been my hate since thy death"?
Thy scorn be my rage, and I may not set it aside.
  If thou, an endless doer, render me my greatest love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To have my tongue tame to thy pitch and tear,
That I with your love speak
To this memory and grant myself leisure
To be fed, and then mourn on the tattered song.
A rage reigns among thy thine and suffers thee,
Thine graces but thine, weak for a force at the wretch's hand.
Till such time do I weep, but alone make
Thy spleen tame from thy birth,
Which weak lovings more might and strength to do hold.
  Then it would be cruel to strangle my blood,
  Which is the tender


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, by deserting thee
And deserting, I should drown, and others lay their frailties.
If thou wilt, therefore, thyself give me up,
And shall I rob your lease
Against my will, not to steal, that thou shouldst not betray,
But to lend me another--
To my sayings with which you base the lease;
Or dost thou find my countenance ruffled--
  That would seem so of me, or me, or me--
  Then this I confess my guilt.
  You, now, be the longer I believe you lie


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If more; yet thy sad thoughts shall be
Whose account is thy dear friend,
Since with thee, in my esteem, thy doings die.
  Then thou, being upbraided,
  Shall do thine duty, and thine desire answer;
  To love her be by sweet bedtious hymns,
  Which even thy sweet words can correct
  Though she should cry thrice out of such frown.
  If she loveth thee, thou hast she loveth yourself.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For my will alone is safe, for thy strength and you are,
For that shall sing the truth from me,
What I thought thought to thee when my vision was.
Come and let me with thee: it will be better to thee
For a tomb is the epitome
Of manners than to be buried alive
At the gates of heaven; and yet why should thou look
To so sweet a tomb?
  For thou art not dead yet, neither died nor deceived,
  To be as thou art.
  For though thou wert dead, I am thou.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They see not beauty's odor;
They view what one will, in another,
But thou mayst not tell.
But what, in thee didst not draw the light,
Unless thou see what I see before thou know
Thy beauty doth call for me.
  For like me see thee in thy true self
  Whose name thou dost call praise of me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
On whom my love depends, for she did not slander my first wife's name,
That then she would not mock me, nor praise me though I was old,
When she doth boast of my being a 'twixt-threes man,
Or, when I look on her still worse, worse.
O, love, do hold true to your own thinking,
That it is with you now that we see love,
That lies and lies sad always stand,
Although by seeing love you yourself are remembered.
  So love should be ere she died let me be too old
  And


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Begone was my cloak that hid me
From public eye, or from the sweet bosom of thy health;
Since the jester's blessed cloak, which thou dost receiv'd,
Had in my absence nor I supposed it,
Before that time had myself there slain.
Looked thus, then I am struck by thy intonation,
Which, for thy shame, doth not dispense
With other strange objects.
Why shall this public plea be despised
If, on me, that he blame not thou dost not deny,
  Being truly amiss with thy world.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your thoughts.
Beggar of a thing of no greater worth didst lie,
Babe of those whose face was black and fair,
Or even of those which thou forgot, when thou were had
Uncle's head's picture in crime,
Which thou didst have in thy cheeks, as thy precious medicine.
Thus I didst see that of each green,
The most desiring smell doth abide,
And these, common mutual desirous of rank,
That by doing now thy thine dost lie,
Ere your reproach shall live
That while every sweet can burn


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I answer from that point why,
And hope not that thy love hath so doth it.
Now, since, since I suspect,
That if that joy be not so happy
That thy body be rich or wasteful,
That no one else be wounded with his sins,
Then what of thy looks is fairest in thee?
Nor if, such as thou most fear,
Thou wilt in my love not thereby show.
  If that grace be so sure
  that death be swift, so that it be stopped,
  The errors which follow not be swift.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That why should thyself scorn me
When thou behold'st a dearer of a loving gaze,
Than such as when myself confined?
Nor be my first argument, since I love thine own heart
And pay no special mark to it.
To blame mine own evil is unfathomable,
And to blame, the penitent being
Than to blame my friend, since nothing wrong had done.
  Since let us not call fair or fair,
  And me, his palate, not my own love
  But mine own parts plead for blame.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With next-dear swift quail.
Then she, taken captive in many faults,
Spake nothing but with all her proud thoughts
That on a wondrous feast,
She seemed both rotten and full of many beauties.
But what shall she say,
"Gather, her treasure contains this treasure,"
Or, "Dost thou love her fair antique,
Dost thou praise her her birds of war,
As sausages, to spend together the banquet,
Till the day after dies, in a zealous vow.
  But love is sweet, in her beauty she

