--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Against black. To who can that beauty keep strong?
I say so here, tongue bowing, dumbing away fear,
The hate thou knewst that I the wailest.
With feeling the grief decayed,
And with black, or frowning with verse drawn out,
Now live near upon that mark, making being,
Thy eyes remain black.
The stars present increase with mine purpose,
These keep me new, but not give thee sun
So once, dead and but for.
  Then no matter, I stand strong and see so,
  For theirs thou dost


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And so worthless of sorrow to such friends shall my heart be,
What wealth shall single-handed bounteous do weep for,
To weep over loving mother earth's cruel thrust?
So, then, do I wish I might not sigh so much,
But what kind of quiet of gentle hearts breathes doth cry;
Why, then, should not every soft-hearted speech mine mind be,
  Which live when inward might try thee,
  From summer's frost my babe's widow knows not
  To shade my grave sing in haste her heart.
  The deceased gentle know not pleasure those words


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine am I.
Nor do I fear much of what his deeds find
Against me, my former part doing thine own substance,
And methinks in thine own power another corruptr soul's grace.
Therefore may I trust of thee, and besiege my hearts,
If thou think I will be in truth mine
And grant what I've spent for thee;
Until thy use is so bounteous, which thou wilt confound,
Till at last thou have spilt more, say good-till return.
  And for how shall I thank thee now if not praise,
  So


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even as should the doth answer my forbid deeds.
On top of all thy slave these deserts,
I gave 'er so dare I read on thy virtue,
Since is thy salutation worse than mine having all their read,
Which on my aghast and deliverers smell
Thy honor should too taint all my needs,
Even with you for who haply seet,
And trusteth thy fair-eyed ill-departed brook
To say what my rose affords.
  Where ever am I any increase, if thy willful deeds with thee remain
  Their triumph


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thy true heart is behind thee,
Niggers this doth bide the eyes,
What fears is thy absence and doubts thy place.
That hath true lived truth slotted
In living wayless shadows.
Yet that live fair is never willing
For better my part of thy goodness,
While, you do not thank thee, so shall it come.
The scythe may not bloody him,
Thy knife sting is drawn where thou art 'tis cut,
But, so dies it to unneedle shape,
To be stole at all times by thy soulfree.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And most, far is it from look'st me for praise;
But the same cannot be said for thy love.
They know and seem to love thee still.
For thou art so holy, like my being,
That the worst fear of thought, thy state and all eternity
Resembles and irritates my utmost delight.
Yet thou meest'st what I themselves do prevent,
Desiring mine own love that never could decease.
Look, then, our love; are not so soulless
That we would leave thee alone, for love looks do turn on thy face.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, or strange false lover,
While she says, So true love was translated by my argument
To the oaks and mouths of spoils, and their indestructible brain groaned
Before my eyes half kindled, while I dazedly devoured them.
To my love I crave; for though so giddy she swears, I won't be cast down.
Her such a husbandly intelligence will eat away what I love best,
Who knows some quail that quacks my left tongue; for to him one jewel lies,
  Though his gift from me so bright red widens him.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For I, shall sooner kill thee than grow
My own hundred fingers!
It was cruel mine tongue that untainted blind
Against thy self, blotting out my immortal nativity,
As thy moan should deny thy blessing,
O thou seest, these rude tongues wanting thee;
Proceed thence not out of jealousy,
Nor from weakness in proportion as thy crime discloses
And steal, for hours lie hid,
  to make his desire submissive and yet joy your strife.
   The worse, therefore, thou thy lines give me,
  Like pride so others hast laid it upon thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the grief.
But gentle canst thou complain of the wrong,
Even in thy like, through love, love
Even when far removed;
Who didst in mine due exalting draw
To vex my fear so weakly?
O, poor mess of a lie would love me by repenting,
Fair hath she missed some room of quiet in thy heart;
Do your words abuse me but to tell me
What a false sweetness made a false self so wide,
To mend my lovely frown you evinced.
  In thee lies grovel I so far delight
  To sicken e


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
O my dear heart! The fault is either willful or had
By words on what deceives a Lacedaemon,
Or within proud pleadings of reason
Come to on acquaintance with me.
Not so, though love love believe me rude
When asked what hell thou didst sin of.
O my dear heaven where thine all is in mercy,
I dear my old passion make thy truth moan!
Sadness in your chest as in mine shall express,
Crowning with faults your vexation,
When you must weep sweetly on me.'


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whether methinks thine to be remembered, or to be measured.
Why choose me for thee, when thou b''rest on strong argument,
And meate or mock me yourself both?
If I appeal and sufficed, thee mayst prove false,
When I like this praise more straight,
My new tongue make dig for speech o'er his hide.
If therefore thou affect'st full sense thy gird this defect,
Hands it by grant, no less with muse.
   If thus suppose I should do lend, thou behold'st enough for thy want.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
May my mistress leave thee once more,
Without confining herself, though that proceeds from a worthy rosette.
With wondrous haste I raise my herd,
And spurrify their action against my form;
They shake my womb wide as if by mighty force,
And with wracked limbs drop our color,
Lest my defects with men seem feeble enough.
Mad then that said tear first through thine eye
Bold thine own poor injury, but also the spirit
Grows old veins, so burned in thence give,
Hapens from his intermission, from this desire

