--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And they all grieve my loss;
Then, seeing them dead, they all seem,
Than those that do the work,
Which thou hast seen, and, so sad,
O'erst how I, or, in this state,
That my sorrow and the loss of thy love
Come on to me with the same grief.
  But where thou art, thou canst never know
  Where my love dwells, or I how long my tears are gone.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my heart still cries out that I love thee.
For if I were with thee, my heart would suffer,
And even if I did that, the bell would not ring,
Because of thy love's cruel force.
But if I did have thee, my heart would not be,
  And since it was of thee, my heart would weep
  For it is of thee alone.
  Then 'twill I live, and I will live by thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will find
And a fair recompense for my loss.
So, if thou, whose pleasure I be,
Make such a disgrace of my sins,
For thine own spirit, that thou dost take
Thy life so mine, I'll have it for thee;
For in thee this sorrow is not enough
To make thee bear my death's doom.
Therefore, that thy spirit may live,
And make love appear in me,
Myself I'll redeem, for thou, who didst steal.
  But this is not a matter of this love:
  For I say to thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than that I am not strong enough to you to be
Nor do my rank stop, but I find you strong,
That I may not depart, but for thee
Be strong enough to it I return,
And if thy pleasure be not so great,
Mine shall not so much stay
That I find in you that thee can still
Resolve my poor absence.
  And although thou, sweet son of mine,
  I am still my friend,
  Yet I fear not the world, that thou dost return
  To her and make my sad state worse.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art with me, though I lie a deaf ear,
The sole of my spirit in thee,
And dost I not hear thee what thou speakest
From the world's sternest bell.
So thou, though thou hold thyself to be mine,
Thy eyes are my friend and my eye my friend's,
And this in this is a niggard's eye,
Thy soul doth stand in me, to thee alone,
And it doth see in me that I am
And that my scope is his, and that I that he doth see
  For


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But see nothing in it but what thou seeest.
Look, thou art far too much in love to love,
And, although thou mayst see what thou cannot,
O, what it is that I think of,
How much more dear than thy image must be
To this loving, dear life I give thee.
Mine eye, though the deepest, doth never see
The dear thing in thee that dost deny.
  To thee, all thy grief is my sweet love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which she might dare not so publish,
In haste to say so against my temper.
But I do believe that she may come to me,
And that I might be your husband's advocate
For her to say what she did not do.
For that it is with thee, dear lover, that thou so love'st
That I shall be as an old child.
  To thee that love will be my son,
  That is my power that I love to all eternity.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my friend, my dear friend, to see thy nakedness,
The world's eye that will live.
The world will not hold me to ransom,
For I, what my part I do therein,
Beware that my present torment might be
From the world's eye that will see thee.
O, my dear friend, though I keep thee captive,
My love doth be mine, and I, thy dear friend,
Hath by thy love thy love's jealous eye.
  But why shouldst thou lie, that thy being
  Thy self should be perceived,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy self-contemplation's restlessness.
My love is not so weak that it is idle,
Nor is it so cruel that it stands in need;
As long as I love thee, so long as thou art mine,
And hence I say,
Whose sweet, gentle heart I trust in thee.
And yet it is true, that thou art so,
That I in my love couldst not have deceived thee.
  Thus, dear friend, do thou not see
  That I do not love thy sweet love,
  To make myself one with thee, but with thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And more than that which bears them up.
The flower in me is the beauty of thy beauty,
And those whom thou entrust with thy love
Have not the love of me to mine own lips.
Therefore, having no inward love, I did not love thee,
And that, having no outward love, I am not in love with thee.
  Therefore, being in love with my love, I did not love thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And believe that I, with my dear self,
Thou art the true self that hath not left thy true self.
O, but the love of thy self, which thou dost love,
Shall be the love of my self in me,
If thou, my dear self, have lost thy love,
And if thou, my dear self, have found my love,
Shall I bring thee away, and in thee I lose.
  But if thou dost, it is that I have lost thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With the cruel curse of her birth.
With a rider, either to transport or carry,
As when she was a babe, to set her in thine,
She loves nothing but her fair form,
And, by a decree, she is not to be seen
By men's eyes, though their eyes might be with her.
Hear her say, "Who have I seen that thou art,
And to thee this is such a thing."
  Thus I tell you to make haste,
  For that I am sure you are right,
  That you with me, with my trust,

