--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making me sick, and in sorrowing, and in me,
Making me sick with grief,
Making me sick with love,
Making me sick with hatred,
Making me, and all that is in me,
Making me sick with love,
Making me cruel, and all that I love,
  And now, as I look upon thee,
  You, my love, and I, and all that I love,
  Then, be of good cheer, and praise me,
  And I shall not be sick.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
So that I may say truth when I have no time,
And that I shall live again on the day
Than I did in the days of old,
For if my heart should be so strong,
That I might have loved myself,
When I had no time to live,
Then could I say what I did,
The one true love that I ever had.
  I would not shame myself for that,
  For love's true love is my heart's ransom.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
And I can bring my dear son back to the state of mind of
To whose good I have not yet seen,
Nor the grave of thy deceased friend.
And that, that, that, that, that, that,
That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that,
That, that, that, that, that, that, that,
That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that,
  That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that,
  That


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I now to-morrow desire thee,
To make my love grow, and to make her live.
O, my dear love, thou art my love,
And yet, till I die, I will not live
Nor do my love with thee.
  But, though I live, yet I die.
  For, for thy love, for mine own sake,
  Thou art my truth, my love's substance.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So do I, that thou mayst break the heart
And sing the praises of others,
Thy love, thy love's sweetest love,
Is now found in thy heart and in thy mind.
Thy love, thy love's sweetest love,
When thou art found in me,
Which thou mayst sing in me now,
Is now found in thy heart, in thy mind,
And this is thy love's child,
That is in thee, and this is thy love's child.
  Therefore, when thou hast found thee,
  I will sing in thee, but


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what it is that dost see but thou dost not see.
They know not what they see
But thou forst their sight, and they know not what thou dost.
The eye that thou dost see, perceives,
And it doth perceive what thou dost see.
The eye that thou dost see perceives, perceives,
And it doth perceive what thou dost see.
  And thus they see what thou dost see, and they are both
  That thou dost see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When all my lively thoughts are in a state of twilight,
And that I, in my youth, think of her.
I have no thought of her, nor of my love,
Nor of her love's lasting affections,
Nor of her love's malingering, nor of her tears,
Nor of her rips, nor of her foul smell;
Nor of her beauty, nor of her eyes,
Nor of her beauty's deep wrinkles, nor of her wrinkles' eyes
Nor of her sweet smell, nor of her sweet smell's taste.
  All these are my thoughts, and all


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, yet I know not what thou dost say,
Thou art a thief, and that which I do steal
From thee in thief's sight,
That thou, being so false, lie to thyself;
For this thou shalt not steal from me,
And hence, being so true, I will not steal
From thee, nor do thou steal from me
  That I may say, and that thou mayst never steal.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My thoughts with too much more amiss,
Than to my love with words, to my love with thoughts,
To prove my worth by my love's effect,
To show my love's love's worth with words,
And then thou wilt be my love's worst,
For love's love's love's worth is a sorrow
And, in my love's words, my love's worth is a sweet
And, in my love's words, my love's worth is a sweet
  And thou shalt be my love's worst,
  For, in my love's words, my love's


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my mind that loves what I do love.
I am not, therefore, like thy eyes,
That thy thoughts should never see thee,
For they see me not, and, to me,
O, thy thoughts are untrue.
Hence, on this account, I am rich,
And, being rich, I do not lie,
Nor do thy thoughts deceive me,
Nor do I in thee lie,
Nor do I in thee lie,
Nor do I in thee deny thy love,
Nor do I in thee deny thy love.
  So, this is my love in thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The sweetest of all thy sweetest love,
Which our world's love, by force, gives,
To us thy sins, our guilt,
And then thy sins are so indigest
That they are writ on thy words,
That they are so much more than thy love's.
O, what, then, didst thou bring into my sight
Thy true love, which thou hadst love's love,
To see it not in thy love's worst?
  That's why thou dost mock me,
  That I am so much more than thy loving love
  To


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now, let it not be thought of my forbearance
That at the first sight of thy love
Shall I then be loved, but that thou shouldst have had
Thy own sweet desire as soon as I took thee,
That thou mightst have the sweetest night, that thou mightst think
Thy own sweetest love couldst be made.
  Yet thou wilt be true, since I am thy love,
  And nothing else can make thee so despised.

