--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy breast upon me, and thy heart my shame,
They tell me, 'Why do you hate me, that thou art in thyself?
For love, to hate, to hate is to lose
The love of thyself, and this thou dost me.
O, how much worse do I die,
Than, that thy love be gone, that I have not thought of thee.
  But, if thou wilt hate me, then I shall not hate thee.
  But, being loved, I shall, in thy love,
  Kill myself, and thy love shall live


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That to me all my beauty's power is abused
And every tongue calls me,
And all my fair, self-titled nature
That knows me as she knows me,
To prove my worth and to praise her own goodness.
No, love, love's sickle is my cure,
And it's my hate that turns me on.
  So love's sickle heals me,
  And my heart is the wound that it kills.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
I can see no man who would steal my soul,
But if I do steal thy husband's love,
He shall, for his own sake, betray me,
And I shall bear his debt, but not his blood.
  But if he do betray me, I shall bear him's burden.
  And, in this I must not lie,
  But, being what I am, I must live,
  To live, to live.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To give thee such an end that I shall not die.
And if thou art, thou art in me,
And will do me no wrong.
Thou art my love, and thou art my friend,
And I in thee my will is made,
And if thou shalt be wrong, I in thee my judgment is made.
  This is the true love of my heart,
  That my love and my thoughts, both of thee,
  Were but one.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou shalt be in thyself the beauty of thyself,
Which is thyself thyself's being,
And not thou the spirit's being, but thou thyself's being.
If thou be the living being, thou art my being,
And this being my being, my being, is thy being.
But if thou be my being, thou art my being,
And that being is not thy being, but that being.
  And that being I myself am,
  For thou art my being my being, my being.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they know what it doth stand
In thy own beauty.
The thief's eyes, their true shape,
Which their eyes may see, do see what thou seest.
They know what they see, but thou wilt know
What thou seest, and thou shalt know it.
Thou shalt see what thou seest, and not what thou seest.
  So thou wilt not see what thou seest,
  But thou wilt see what thou seest, and thou shalt know it.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That if she were, she would not make me look so,
For if I were, she would not have to prove it.
But now, as if I were true,
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That if I were, she would not be so,
That if I were, she would not think so.
  But now, as if I were true,
  I do believe her though I know she lies,
  That if I were, she would not be so,
  That if I were, she would not think so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou hast a good will, thou shalt not hold it
Nor confound me with thy plea,
Nor blot my guilt with thy own eye.
If I should see thee, I should be more gracious,
And, having spent my love, I would leave thee alone.
If I should not see thee, I should say,
Thou art my friend, my love, my soul.
  I should, for love's sake, say,
  That thou wilt be a thief,
  And, seeing me, thou must steal my treasure.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My own thoughts with more force than thou art mine.
Mine own truth, mine own spirit, is my defense,
And I'll not deny it, nor lie
Nor dare I say I did not think it so.
I am your mistress, your love's slave,
And, if thou dost love me, tell me why.
Ask not what I did, nor why thou dost love me.
  To me that love dost love thee,
  I say, "Give me not my heart, but thy spirit."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That is my love to thee and to thee.
If I did love thee, I should not lie
That is my outward outward beauty,
For in thee all my pride and my worth seem,
And my inward shame and my outward shame,
To make myself that which I hate,
Which thou dost in me and in me.
  But, in love, I love thee with my eyes,
  And in thee I do love myself,
  To make myself that which I love,
  To make myself that which I love,
  To make myself that which I love,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For that my heart's joy may not be
Against thy gentle, sweet, and gentle hand,
But in thy beauty thy sweet tongue may not stain.
Thou art, therefore, a sick man,
And I have this my love, and this thy love
Which I am no more in love with thee,
Nor that thou dost love me,
But this thou art my love, and I have this,
Which I shall use to cure thee.
  This thou art, therefore, my love, and I have this,
  That I love thee, and this thou art my love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her babe doth a good time woe,
To see her dead in her womb,
Making for her a war, a knife,
And her lover her disgrace.
The child's soul is made captive,
And she is to be sold,
To be converted into her husband's breast.
O, my child, why should I forsake thee?
O, it is my duty to do this,
That thou mayst not lose me,
For I am my friend's slave.
  But that thou mightst lose me,
  I must beg of thee, that thou may

