--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As though they possessed thought should fear me.
Mine eyes and mine countenance are made,
When all of their being are sick;
O, my bad eye, look upon that which thee dost frown,
And on that which thou dost hate give,
Since most dear mourners wish to see that all thine
Are true, and true for all.
And that is what I hate most;
That his eyes thou weepest, and seeing thine is lost.
  All these parts, with one view,
  Lo, are not to me, but that look
  To conf


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To bear me now, when my heart shall be gone?
Or to wear away still the spirit of my youth
To thrift with old age
And make new life,
When an old lover's widow, or a married fool's widow
Now buried, and never gilded,
All love's long, sweet love's end assured,
And gives me that sweet sweet dear bird that I love.
  All this I have thought now of grief,
  And I have thought of all those sorrows that I feel,
  All of them true, all true, all true,
  All true


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine inas I may live.
Now, how do you and I see
When I hear the report of such treachery,
And if thou wilt trust me, more will be mine;
For, when this low crime is at hand,
My burden will be on thee, if I steal.
But, my dear self, I am in thine eyes,
And in the sight of a thief,
I am sorry, too, and wantonly to be disgraced.
  Save that, when I see him in my sight,
  Take not thy finger, for I will make him rich.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than that she hath left me in the mist,
Then, doily in this vice,
Of such an abundance that thou wrong shouldest.
So, so, I, to thee that hath more,
But of thee, where thy birth is,
For myself the cause of men's lives,
For my being, the truth of things are,
Which I shall as thou shall I find,
How to desert them thou shouldst, and thereby.
  Then, to thee not that may, I dare it;
  Lest I disgrace thee that they will not feel
  Their grief


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So shalt thou dost betake myself,
And in that betake I, being allfold,
Unless my soul die my prey,
And that thou mightst be thy own will,
Till my foul pencil when called to print
Then turns that which I beheld before my eyes.
  Then live, thou dost the print survive,
  For having made so many errors,
  Time and Death within thy lines be unbounded.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but nothing else but what they see
Thou art; their tongues look only to thee
By their tongue or eyes they with thee.
They perceive nothing but where thou dost thou hide,
In their view and perceive what they see
To make a transfiguration in thee,
To alter their thoughts by thy wit;
They are deceived not of thy true smell
To think what the mind perceives,
And when I have seen this, my love doth think
 Where thou dost never sit.
  Woe to thee, true thief, how weak,
  To be deceived and read of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And not be like her that doth grow old.
But as a thing with truth wherewith she lies,
Though speaking with thee, thou wilt grow old,
And hold me up, till this age I will be barren.
Therefore do they not steal thy love from me,
Thou dost have me by this woe,
And spend my proud spirit in the evil.
  Hence I live a constant youth,
  So it is with them that steal my love,
  And thereby in me I die.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, son of your woman, remember that you are mine;
Unless a crime be committed against me,
Who dare not defy thee, not forsake me,
That I, with thee, thee,
Save my husband! For myself have I th' hand
Against thy wickedness, which, to me, is proud
Of your lovely self-love.
Thou art my son, not my child,
Since thy art will love be no injury.
  Yet thou wilt bear me no heir,
  And this is why I crave thy soul.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Your care that I might be barren in your distempered,
Thy youth would not stain the breast with thy bitterness,
Like to thee were I to be placed.
For through your tears have I delivered joy of youth,
And from your fierce love their heaven
May bear that summer fairing, not stain,
Nor deny thy image sweet to pluck it.
  So like your beloved Praetor do I weep,
  So do I in your deep sorrow, for thou vouchsaf
  To live so long that, like me, thou depart.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And bears them to eternal shame,
And still to myself, like my hand, thine eye.
And thou, blessedly mortal, must see my love,
For thou hidest thyself from eternity.
  For my rest, mine eyes, for thy motion, my thoughts,
  Preserve this woe of mine eye:
  I wail that this be laughed at,
  And that thou shalt all my weary woe
  Die by my countenance;
   But now, my love, you live by me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou the end of art, not despised,
Yet shalt kill for thy self.
Who dost thou blame that in thy rage,
Your show of youthful beauty
Making me the bright heart's being?
O, thee mine fault in deeds,
O, my own temptation to adulterate,
Mine own loves.
Mine love love hearkened to thy name,
And every time this I would have;
But it did not till thou avenge
The present, for thou wastest me now.
  My love, and thou thy love's shame,
  Hath stained not my


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
How things were so, then, when Nature's eye fell on
For you, to take thy image, and get thee out.
Yet like a sower of thy breath I smell
O'er the wailing of thy child's wail,
Th' change that thou, being thyself doth make.
I smell thy foul odor, or I see it in thy sweetness.
A look on thy face then makes me hear
From thee that to thy beauty made thee.
  Or to your beauty's beauty, thou blame me,
  Not so if that odor grasps up my

