--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The sick, the poor, the lame, the sick,
And those whose loss is due to their crime,
Than I, though I love thee, yet do not love thee
And do not know thee by name,
For their sweet eyes do not love thee,
And they do not know thee by name.
  This is why they do not love thee,
  Because they think I am not their best friend.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or to have my heart so strong that it blunts
That it shall wrinkle and shake from me,
And I, in a state of my heart, might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so strong
That I might be so strong that I might be so


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
And thou mayst be my heir;
Thy heir is mine, and thy heir mine.
Now, if thou wilt not be my heir,
Thyself I'll forfeit to thy will,
Thy heir is mine, and thy heir mine.
Now, if thou wilt not be mine,
Mine will be thy heir, and mine will be mine.
  O, that is my true love,
  To thee my love, and thee mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than when thou wilt be so,
That I shall not be the object
To thy deserts, but may be the object
To thy love's love's love's love,
And find fault with it, and find fault with it
With thy love's love's love's love's love's love's love's fault.
  But when thou shalt be so,
  I will not depart, nor will thou depart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy poor self, thy poor self,
That gives the gift of thyself to me;
So thou art my self, thyself thyself,
And my self's bad, my self's good,
And I should be thy self, and thyself thyself,
When thou art my self, my self's bad.
  To thee I am the self, my self's bad,
  To thee I am the self, my self's good,
  To thee I am the self, my self's good,
  To thee I am the self, my self's bad


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see not what they see.
But thou art blind, and thou art so.
Thou art blind, and thou art so.
If thou think not, thou wilt be deceived.
What a dost thou look upon
When thou look upon beauty's truth?
O, what beauty dost thou look upon,
If thou think not, thou wilt be deceived.
  This is thy cause, and thou art it.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And my love, as I am, as a child,
Is not to me a creature of thought.
But I do not believe her,
And I do not know how she will believe me.
She is made of truth, but I do not know how she will believe
  To whom she will write me my love's name.
  If I think her true, I may believe her,
  But if she is untrue, I may not believe her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The world may be, but thou art not my body,
For thou art my self, my self only,
And not my self's parts but my parts' parts,
The world's parts being the most dreary thing
That ever doth change, and I, by thee,
May live in the world's parts, and live in the world's parts
And live in thyself as thy self doth die.
  For in thee, I say, I live
  For I am thy part, and thy part be.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My pleasure, my love, my love's pleasure.
Respect my heart and my soul, but not in me
To express, though you love me, in my heart
Than in my soul to express you.
To be for my love, and not for your sake,
Do not be so cruel as to call me 'love's love'
O, my dear friend, I would never be so cruel
As to slander you, my dear friend.
   But your love is my heart and my soul,
  And I, my dear friend, cannot be so cruel
  As to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And this is the true love of my heart,
And I love thee so dearly that I will not leave
To sing praises of thee.
As I love thee so much that my heart is filled with praises,
That, for a single moment, I feel the sweet odor of thy beauty,
And, my heart's pleasure, I hate thee so much that I love thee so,
  As if thou were mine own, and not mine own.
  Then, like a drunkard, I am not yet drunk,
  So that I cannot say, "My heart loves thee,"
  Because,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou, my love, thyself my self,
Save me not from the unrighteous that hate.
Thou, my love, in thy hate,
Thou, my love's heir, my self's heir.
O, but thou, my love, in thy hate,
Thou, my love's heir, my self's heir,
Save me not from the unrighteous that hate.
  But I fear thee, my love, that thy love's disgrace
  I shall not escape.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Strikes and injures her head with her great thrust.
If she were in your sight,
When you saw her, you would not be so dumb,
As I am, to say that you were not so much dumb.
But when you saw her, you would not be so dumb,
As I am, to say that you were not so much dumb,
That I am, to say that you were not so much dumb.
  You then, when I see you, would not be so dumb.
  And then, when you see me, you would not be so dumb.

