--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be gracious witnesses of thy vile taste
Which lives on my judgment of these cruel eyes!
For, though all my guilt do me say,
That this was thy thoughts, my eyes are like fire,
From rosy of thy lovely face;
How should I know that thy eyes are not stained with shame?
  And for a fair, loving eye that looks and sings,
  O, those eyes and ear should be affixed.
  But do not love 'tis a burning passion!
  As to thee that my yellow rage seems is
  The mystery of decay and decay's influence.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And if so beeth, we as fools think ill.
Whate'er best? I myself, dead or living;
All these things do I carve up
And breathe away with these lips of sleep.
It is my heart that makes this process,
And I teach that being that, though in death it is,
It that love doth breathe, mute, my husband.
  All the causes of death are my fault,
  Not but by that which to my heart I curse.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will come;
So have I cheated all my wealth, rich and poor,
For thou, borrowed, I have thine,
To say, I pay thee nothing.
Be no fool; this love, such a love,
I love is not hid nor hidden.
Be myself, and walk, so that thou mak all my noblest
That is not of my blood,
  Where, and by thee lies my revenge.
  That which takes this other spring,
  I part myself decease.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than doth blame me that pluck away thy woe,
Or, although I have it well lodged, it is lost
Within me; if it lived on, it was foul enough
To deserve it; if it ever filled thee
The stamp of a thief, mine guilt would cease;
Even so it is that thou himself longs,
As if this worthy thief in thee should die.
  For this is what I say is true:
  This should be my eternal lease,
  That is, that I wish thee to live,
  And thee, blessed that I have thee,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Wearied place with thy heart thou hatest,
Come here, sick and tired, so weak that thou forfeit it
Thy first lie, thy love will find subject,
And then thy pre-reasonable self a prisoner
To be sold from thy prisoner's bargain.
Bites thee blot on thy heart, as might be the fairest is wed.
Thy eyes are too strong to be hurt
Aching against thee, for it fears thee that my sight
Will be seen to thy worse.
Which I suppose thou to be, but the truth sweetly,
  Wounds not to me


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein is found everything
That ever doth see through every eye,
Staufe on every tongue all that doth speak.
The veil is no veil but what lies in it,
Nor is every eye supposed to say here,
Which sees, hears and smells,
And that every thought, and every thought hears
Is 'the blessed veil
Which those of which I face come despite
In heaven's presence to see thee.
  This is my homage to thee,
  And for that to be gone  o'erth is a loss.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or fly away in me with her, till she seen me,
Or devoured me with a holy jade
Spend thy love's sweet will on the morrow.
No, my love sheweth to behold me,
Doth my love persuade me of the world;
She that loves me receives, doth make doth every thing attend.
Her love, however, keeps in me for quite a time;
Her love is played by defecting defiles,
Then disappears in her love, hence my love's defect.
  Then love, for this reason, is my mother's seal


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy sight and ear think of mine worth;
In my morrow, all things are much altered;
My face wrinkles, my brow heavy, my crown sinews,
Yet, for mine worth is cholest
With all that doth disgrace me,
The stain that haunts everything new.
Your eyes are the precious bar me,
And thou survivest all thy youth.
  You, being lackless and blood-thirsty,
  Would compare the beauty of my cheek with thy deeds.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My discontent and affections.
Ere I speak, bring forth thy thoughts as soon as I speak;
Speak not the date of your coming, nor my name till
Pasted, my thievish acquaintance,
O, my decease, my doom.
No brood's neglect, no father-bearing,
Or false invention, no esteem, no love nor gift,
Nor date I, nor record my words to you.
  As to you, my youth is seldom more gone,
  To your memory were not thy thoughts public.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I with my eyes whereof it knows not change;
Making thee transgress to his vulgar,
Since I see him when I see him,
And when I see him; thou seeest what I fear,
When for the sake of others I give not to wish
Mine own will.
For what thou saw in this is true,
Till there is no sin, no false,
No true love, no true say;
Nor for what I did, nor what thou did, do I make
  Of myself thy question.
  Or I doth that desire thus be found,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Gainst thyself our love, and thy boar,
Hath thine white blood our love.
Hath thy shore thy beloved love this is,
Thy love of mine holds no echo,
Nor is of thy mournful heart's breath.
Therefore, though thy blind love obtains all blame,
It engenders with it a body to blame;
And though it die, the wound of mine love
Is at death indescribably deep.
  All sorrow is my pride.
  Thy love lends me all that is,
  So my sins that come from thee


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Or, if she were found, with determined labour
Th' lover, or in fury, till she wou'r dead,
She would be dead as if she had fled the state.
"Thou art dead, do you not fear
The child of bred"?
"No, for that part of thy love shall perish,
Delivers her aid in like manner,
So that no child to my love's content would remain.
"My dear love, therefore perish,
But I by thy grace may stay with thee,
That ill o'er which is fell be all best made.

