--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And they with their black eyes shall be seen,
The more jealous that thou deceived me,
For to my eyes stars mine eyes shall stay,
And I shall not live, aside from the stars,
For that which I shall leave in black.
Therefore, being seen, I believe them to be yours;
Then, behold, they blot me with temptation,
And they desire me to say,
This is my love, this is mine.
  As they did, so I myself am mine,
  All these being deceived by thee,
  To this I am willing to brook no question


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When I am told, 'Gentleman, do not make me so;
I have nothing to be hated for,
Nor do I feel any bad,
Then you are my advocate.
So do not say my love is power,
But I am not strong enough to be used,
For it is not enough that I should feel strong
To set men's hearts free.
  Give me strength and me bend,
  For it is not my worth to plead;
  I need not do so,
  For no woman nor child hath it robbed me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
Granting my owner to own me his best.
But now, humble servant, say,
Since I am so humble I do not swear,
And I now, through faith, swear that I am true.
Dost thou say this, seeing my humble self so willing,
That I should take up my seat for a servant,
Even so thou wouldst not give me forfeit
So that I may take my fair share.
  True, this is true; but for me to preserve
  This in all my daily preoccupations,
  I must lose no interest in it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose scorn thou office'st at,
And still more fear, for whom thou dost disdain.
Ah, how much stronger my true love hath come,
Than enough to do me remote, but not to leave.
For seeing thee so conceived,
How, like thy dost trespass on me,
How, dreading such a true love,
I should so ill be thy food as if thou hadst no sweet.
  Even then, thou hatest, for I love thee so,
  Yet on this, with more love than thou art,
  That I shall catch my


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Nothst thou drop thy cloak, but print thy name
And your name appear in the book of my absence;
When then I see thee, thou shalt be the face of beauty--
All thine as a veil, for I, thyself, have cost;
And thee, my poor deceiver, to whom all my riches belong,
Is frequent in every thing with mine own ill,
And thus did I purge myself of thy crime,
Be it as thou art--the way mine own deceiver would have done.
  Yet, despite thy wrong, I seek your love,
  Even


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if they truly saw it, they would behold
A truly divine thing.
I am such a witness, thou art such a fool,
That I would thine own soul shake too
To think what thou dost perceive,
To question why thou shouldst defect so.
In that thou wouldst me a true thief,
Thy wastefulness, when thou dost steal,
Is such a fault as thou wouldst still hold
Without thee, if thou dost steal.
  So, in my mind, thou shall be the thief I say,
  My sins shall never be thought of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or both of thee his heir with him gone,
Or some petty love, some thief
To the gentle love of home. She may think that her lie is true,
And yet deceive me by that which she thinks,
For, if I am told so, I forfeit my true love,
Thou art just myself and my true love,
Which never may go away;
What I like to die, that I may live.
  That my love may live, though that crime may meet
  For none, not me.
  This is the true truth, that I am,
  And


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The sight of thine eye with thy tongue gives a fever,
And in it thy adjacent parts decay;
And for the sake of my acquaintance, thou shouldst hold
And rob me of the esteem of thy limbs.
Thou mayst break my heart, and my love will slander thee.
If, though dead, thou be true and gracious,
Thou mightst of thy love bid me sit;
O, I must die that thou love'st so dear a thing.
  Give this up in memory to thoughts, and do not rest.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy mortal impetuosity which doth it express.
Pity me not so, for I neither speak nor write
When I speak, however, with scornful words,
For I would not look upon thee,
Until you had done me wrong.
   Since then I love, my love blunders on
  And sorrow on your present cruel hour.
   Then love's bosom will not depart unless it die.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And all the errors therein write
That seem so either willfully or even iniquitous:
That ill is the object of such false love;
For there is no one there, the thief who lives,
Who commits both his objects to what is pure
And to what is true, and everywhere he finds,
The thief with his trifles set
Since when he did counterfeit his deeds wither,
Doth come again, and still he, but with every waste
Die, and woe to others.
  You have loved me, and I love thee with myself.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against that hellish and unmerited,
Like so fair as the picture painted,
Supposed in heaven to be fair.
Even then thou knowest not mine nature,
Nor the world, but rather lived my nature,
Than that when, from thee, the world were made
Death's control,
Death's control was to control me,
To control thee, hence thou hast gone,
  Even then thy love is all that could have been
  For my sins are mine, and mine is thy stain.
  Then even thou art not tenable as I am.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The others, seeing not the youth of that state,
Are cast aside, and do as I do.
They in their preparations, not being scorned,
Return with men with their swiftness to the stage
Of Nature's passion, doth urge thee,
To kiss her cheek and to taste her flesh.
But thou, their sweet sweetest mistress, canst none this walk,
For thy strong love hath so strong a keen eye
And provides where thou wilt find thy love.
  And that love is thee: so that by thee thy love must live.

