--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy love's color, which I love,
And I, with that, doth lose it.
They love me, and I, with that, lose it,
That I, with them, shall lose all.
They love me, and I, with them, shall lose all.
  Then they are my children, and I shall be
  Myself, their love, their grief,
  All their loss.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to do this I must leave my friend alone;
For that which I love to be,
To do this I must be bound,
And that which I love to be,
To be of that which I love to be,
To be of that which I love to be.
So that I may be free from all the crime,
And that I may be free from all the evil,
And that I may be free from all the world's crime.
  But I must not be confined to the world's crime,
  For in that world I must be free from all the world's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And I may not be wronged,
When he hath my fortune, or mine, or yours,
Or if he hath me, or mine, or yours,
My dear friend, let him have it,
And he will see my crime, and be sure
That I am not guilty.
  Then let him be my witness,
  That I am not guilty, but that I am guilty.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I am not to be blamed,
For I am not to be blamed,
But, being the sole blame, I am to blame
For thee, and thou, my fault.
  But thou, my fault, I am to blame
  For my own fault, that I may blame thee.
  So that, being blamed, I may be blamed
  And blame myself for my own fault,
  For thou, my fault, I am to blame thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the thief, and I am thy thief's son;
For thou hast deceived me, and I am thy thief's son;
Thou art the thief's wife, and I am thy husband's wife.
If thou wilt live, I will send thee away.
Thou art my child, and I am thy child's heir.
  But if thou live, I will send thee away.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when thou beholdest it, they see it not;
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when thou beholdest it, they see it not;
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when thou beholdest it, they see it not.
  Then, being blind, thou wilt not see what thou wilt see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might tell of her faults and her faults
And be some sort of a poet,
That I might be my true self,
And make her my own muse,
That I might write her in her memory.
But I do believe she is not of truth,
And that I am my true self,
That I am her true self,
That I might be my true self,
And write her in her memory.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I am not to blame, but to be blamed,
And in this I say, 'Thy love is not thy pen,
Nor thy true love thy friend's heart;
Thou, my dear friend, thy love, that in me
Thou art thy true self,
And in me thou are my true self;
For thou, my friend, thou art my true self,
And in me thou are my true self,
And in me thou are my true self,
  For thou, my friend, I am thy true self.
  And, therefore, I say, thou art


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a general spirit as thou art,
Thou art the most holy of all,
And in my thoughts, the most holy of all,
And in my heart, the most holy of all,
And in my love, the most holy of all.
  For my love is such, and so is thy love,
  That it is my love that I hold dear.
  This love is the most holy of all,
  And in my heart, the most holy of all.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my thoughts, which I love,
Are as the thoughts of men, and that my thoughts,
Which I love to be the thoughts of men,
And that their thoughts are my thoughts,
Which I love, and that I love them to be;
Then, being no love, I think,
And therefore I have no love, but I love them to be.
  But I love thee, being my love,
  That I love thee, being my love,
  That I love thee, being my love,
  That I love thee, being my love,
  That


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy love I am not,
Nor that of thy love thyself,
That is so dear to me, but that thou dost love me
As I love thee, and that thou dost love me
As thou dost love me.
  You, my dear friend, who are my true friends,
  Have my love as thy own, and thou, my friend,
  Have my hate as thy own.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She knows not where the wrack is,
But, if it is, she knows it is not
To the wrack of her own heart.
She knows not how to prevent this,
But knows how to prevent it from coming
To her, where it is to come.
She knows not how to prevent this,
But knows how to prevent it from coming
To her, where it is to come.
She knows not how to prevent this,
But knows how to prevent it from coming.

