--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frame bestainst a false face.
But why, methinks I beheld thy face,
I wonder not why thou dost be remembered,
That I will dost sing thee a verse of praise,
And that thou shalt sing such a play,
That, seeing my life's sweet self,
To forget my sorrows shall die.
  For though I look upon thee this sorrowful day,
  For this I cannot do, since thou wilt bear it.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than to throw my love's treasure to the stars,
And make my dear sweet friend with my bow,
To fight a bloody storm on my face,
And even to swear a swear that I swear
The true face of thyself, that thy love is my truth,
And to keep thee locked up from all the world,
As thou wilt stay a prisoner, and that a debt I'll pay
Or, at worst, sell my love away.
  But for that I will remain the true, and thy love shall live.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall steal
Than thou canst give back my worth.
My hope is, though thou no longer my sovereign,
That thou shall do me a favor,
Making myself a slave of the rights of another.
So this should be my judgment,
Thou me when thou makeest a gift,
Give to the false heir of my heart,
And hold the present held dear in thee,
The gift now, now.
  Then I do believe thou will grant me
  That thou will repay my debt.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When I do want my need, but shall not that I show
My hand more on my faults than thou mightst desire,
That thou mightst have my sweet hopes crushed.
Thou hast all my sweet hours in my heart,
And then the hand of thy goddess' love
Hath your fair nurse
In my eyes to be looked upon with their beauty;
But this is not mine, that thou wilt do.
  And this, so do I do, till the hour of my woe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou believe, thou are thy witness,
The truth in my thought shall prove,
Thy child shall hear it but from thee,
Who, by thy sight, not thy shadow,
The other of thy beams be in my soul's head.
I, of all the blessed doves that dwell,
Can speak in thy words, so well as thy tongue can.
But since thy deaf mind, by your perceiving,
Can thus read my thought,
The doubting child may hear the false self,
  That thou, with my good eye, could truly learn
  To whom my


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know not what beauty's outward form
Is to their eye or elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, for their part, do thou hate,
By false words, not to my sense,
O, but by my own tongue.
Thou dost in love thyself an evil thing
And dost that for love of thyself
Which makes thyself love thee what thou wilt.
  And, as for love, how often thou myr excuse
  Makes my voice and all my thoughts give thee up.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For with her mistress it is a strange matter
To lie on your part, that thou must lie.
For I am of true youth, that by your love I know
That truth lies concealed.
Then, in all things strange, when thou alone make it
The thing I see do and do not believe,
What dost thou see thou didst deny?
Or what do I hear, then, that my love doth boast
Of some dumb fool who can no more deny
Thy love's excuse?
  For that reason is so well concealed,
  That it can scarcely believe my love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make me a more perfect heir,
Thy substance more content, thy argument more more worthy;
And this to prove that thy loss is not worth more
Than I thought myself ill, not seeing thy defect.
Now, if I find that I am in a bad state,
Thy faults are with thy own grace, and I find thee;
I am an ill, my own slave.
The truth is, in this, that you have brought thy error,
To that most deserving of praise.
  If, as you are, I have the better part,
  I will not your


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my deeds.
O, make haste, for I have never suffered a shilling,
Nor to dost stop my muse from speech,
That I might not be imprisoned.
Thou art right, therefore, that thou, me, dost stop my music,
That every part of thee may be played.
The sad, sweet love that dost mine should do,
May in my absence show itself in my place,
And mine by my silence lead thee away,
To hell, which thou wouldst have to bear.
  For the end is that which I die, not that my sake



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And doth do nothing else;
But I am my eyes and tongue that speak truth,
To look upon their objects, to take and view
Truth's aspect, not in what they say,
But in what they believe, being themselves told.
If I have seen thee say a thing, I am certain
That you know it to be true;
Therefore, I hate thee with thy eye,
  And this is why I hate thee with thy tongue.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whose pity shall show thee in thee,
That, not thine own self but mine is sweet.
When thou, mine own friend, love of thineself
Is my praise, my hate, my pride, my love
Thou canst not shame me, nor do I need;
Thou alone art my fair self, my fair thyself,
For thou art my witness to all my bad deeds.
  Thus it was with thy self, that my grief was his pleasure,
  And that his sorrow, though buried, his beauty
  Is now buried with thee, the image of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, seeing her in such haste,
O, do not confound her
By more imprudent deeds; for this, she would bear,
To save the poor of their deaths.
The young goddess, therefore, being quite unbounded,
By nature's force calls her aid.
Hearing the maiden doth give her aid,
She in her lover's tongue calls the wolf's prey.
When Nature doth lend, I of my heart would with her aid
Give life and breath.
  If I had given life, my mind would be so hot,
  That my

