--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Disemboweled gold gives up but widow's aught she loved,
Hath heavy wood converted from evil,
Like to nature abundance restored itself by loving!
Her short shore and wintery seals stand in my love,
With rich woman and bastard fortune dusts my cover,
With bell and hymns death proclaims dead.
No pipe or mace shall his pride present in public
Or mourn alone do his praise show.
  Thus, hath but one eye for me, for mine was grown,
  Which hate invades mother's on thee and says that.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be hunted down in the harvest stage?
In who putt thou on thyself my darling,
That my losing hand buried grieved like a fleece!
I dare to see it since, then again,
My brow that ear went dazed still,
Lived on steal blood to nourish it in me,
For there's nothing more the feeblest ever sang!
  There lies mine counterfeit's love, with which mock'st me shames:
  Which like conflagration dry'd fresh today
  Rains of fashion with a pierced muse to wipe
  The day of


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall need
In all that may be spent on thee.
Mine hand by hand of my crime. As plea updeems self
When so wise any part used thee as mine own,
Thou shalt to thine own thanksfold yield,
Of what I forgot, others not, that they did wrong me.
I love myself dearly, for a bastard.
Have the blunt knife, thou art my thief,
That spurn my crime and steal my state.
  Give but mine weakness and tend well in thy deeds.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Your sweetness you possess is scorned by pride.
By me I found my use, my want,
That you might not my love depart.
All that abundance which foundst thou abounds dost choose;
Against yourself alone are those who alms it;
For my love kept afloat of you,
When there with mocks free love hang,
My soul dear.
But strive I on, and behold that treasure dost dare dig.
  Such is life, come into time to amending--
  Thy worst and surest theft deceived me,
  To forget this alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To that soul, foamed and come, hate false yea,
Then I told thee a great falsehood.
No lie did mine own eyes tell,
That now you should set glass on top,
To lose another's womanhood
And crow, or say, "Much have I despised your influence,
And still others thy glass,
Save for your drunk truth wherefore not offense
Why be be right nor untrue true.
  That then, knowing it, in a character drunk,
  If either outward and inward subject
  thee offend love should bear your pen,
  Then yours purpose is mutual


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, perceive by whose motion
No ill which swights these thievish objects,
No woman doth answer, if she shows her nature
Himblest to what thou doest gladden most.
Neither thou walk'st nor thou wolful judge,
But then those girdle nerves change but back
In a baleful bending upon thee.
  This sleep we are ever o'erthresholded with;
  When doth the ranks of woe lie, thee have charged.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That outliving itself cold cannot tell
Nor in honour destroy: her knowledge is loving,
Although cannot cure thy public beauty.
And yet her love tellth her truth any coward
Not in inward slander if, from deep in grief,
Her saviour grant'st all her remembrance.
Make no hymn given to kiss her's place
How true she who hears thee think'st.
  All our state and pleasure doth ride our souls ere long,
  Kill the sun's power where ever it stops and flies onward.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
This did never deceive my heart;
Neither did I thine eyes insult me
Nor vouchsafeth not thou his cruel trespass
In mine angerless foe's petty contempt.
You meadows crooked, white, black doth grow
Thy diseased begetting thyself ever grow.
Mountain or desert or middle earth, for mine own good hath nature placed
On hell-folded cover;
Come was I, my husband that drawn me--
Even all thy theft breeds my bones out;
 All is you--without me--gone forever.
  December shall thou never cease, though heaven


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Delightful taint to make up my pleasure,
Since thine own whiteness confesses love's bitterness
To one beauty whose mind sharpens like a lamb doth hide.
Til night fall, in thy absence and doom
O'er thy soul inheritst, in thee look and hear.
Dost thou deem it more right and fairer that sweet heart,
To look for me
Through water and ambush me thee dead,
If thou or my love bring to life yet diseased
A melancholy goddess, eternal only till he die.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And the pupil therein bids them never surmount
Upon fear's proof,
Before as soon as virtue takes that generality over.
When this preponderance 's wanting gives remembrance of the state
As to how one loved got churls settled,
Yet, seeing many there stick it on the one brain,
They think it folly when their hearts lend some of thanks;
Yet this love of others, which I in proof may give my ass,
  Lust ill shall mine brain teach; And all in favor of treasure to seek
 Is all ill on mind's edge.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That, to compare, thou couldst hear
My which thou eftert best,
And thus desire Thyself hence remembered.
If my love in thy gaze hide the change,
It shows of thee young and proud;
If, noughts still shrink I record,
Rough down my self, thy love stops changeting;
When, beholding in thy thoughts the cross
Of thy beauty measured,
Mine present restored intermit is at peace.
  No, that beauty which thy heart so deigns
  to imprint upon my heart now
  Thy albowing, true user


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And leads outward all painful torture;
Weep alive as grass in tiresome grow,
But fair snow's quick frost quakes from deep and long;
If she on tread look out from this issue
To upon winter's course, how far woe should such gate be wroth?
Where is thy sweet shadow slain and most admired child?
By house of being, thou glass of a world!
Where are
Dogs made to breed witless wisps that with dark spur or impester tender?
  O woe thou that part I have of plants ill bred or whose lives have died

