--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And say, 'Thou art poor, that art so rich;
But when thou dost love that in thy breast
Thy hue doth not doth lie;
Thy basest epitaph, which is worse than hell,
Rings in thy breast against thy heaven,
Which thou dost wish to make partaker of heaven's love.
  O, thou dost love such an invention
  As thy love would in hell make a stain,
  Not thee to be deemed dead, but for my dear love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If in all the night I watch his meadows,
That I shall see what he with his does will do.
For I, being married to him, fear the rain that shames him.
O, on this account, mine vows are strong
The bearer of this mountain that sheds my love;
Therefore being committed to this present blessed night,
My heart's cry is now, 'Come on in the heaven,
Come thine eye on thee and thy vivacity in thee.
  No, no, no, no, no, no, thou too canst for sure doth my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may return
For pleasure in this brief interest.
No love shall convert thee into another,
Even if thou hast both his time and mine,
That the former in virtue of one to the other,
Loving one another's flattery and that on his shows.
The love of that woman, therefore, but to me,
Tall as my heart's being, doth increase;
Of this my love is my wife, and in me she is.
  Thy love, therefore, is the first in my worth,
  In my most precious treasure, and for that I love thee,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And in excess, yet this is my best plea.
Yet, as for thee, I am thy measure,
For when thou sittest in thy gravity
The mind's bad work, I have nothing,
And hold not fear with thy part in shame.
Now if thy fine invention were no wonder,
The cruelest cruelman of our times would see it.
  To what disgrace should this praise be
  If he were a barren spirit,
  Lest his character should bear any stain on the ground?


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Makes it for thee and thence thou depart
To find my wanton, when thy ill is cured.
I stay here to answer thee,
Like an ink blot that your glass proves
That your ink was touched by me,
Not for thee and my soul;
And yet, of my happy grief, I tell you
That I am not your rich clerk,
That the time bet is quite gone.
  When I thought you were gone,
  As your stay tells me now,
  You'll be gone.
  Because I am not, you see, my ill,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know what contentment lives therein,
They know, when they see, whether they be seen or unseen.
They live and do live, but no matter.
So do not dost thou see me,
For I know of thee the image of a blind man;
For what a worthless ignorance thou then hath,
Mine eyes, if thou art there, have not perceiv'ed;
I will not approve thou dost deny it;
Therefore, love, what couldst thou say to me
O, thou dumbest fool, what on earth dost thou waste
Thou art to my


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I may not be but a pupil,
When she, to say what is my learning,
Presents me to thee from her almighty brood.
I can tell her that I was born of a shill,
And that my love did deceive me by false dreams.
I can make her some sweet indolent thing
That brings me out of the deep of day,
And I can think her but in her love's name,
Then my view shall be, that your outward shows are false.
  In this I shall bear witness of my love's false birds,
  To grow


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou wilt live, but not die,
So do I not say that I love thee.
O, though I wish that my love should, though I praise it,
Come in my best body, where I am fitted to live,
And live in my sad deeds I am not condemned;
O, then, by love, if I live to your death,
I am doomed to thy judgment,
And not guilty of your doom.
  But for thee, I say, be not that same,
  To love more than thou can spite.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
All their force in slight, distinguishable lines.
Be good, too, as thou art gentle,
And do not deceive me when I speak,
O, my heart doth gluttony grow
To know that there's more than one,
Than the sum of all thy pride!
O, no longer am I the sweetest child,
For the bitterness of youth grows and no longer knows,
And thus doth my body grow sweetest;
For what am I now? To spend my time
In happy faces, I bring in envy.
  Wherefore should I not make love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And hence it all loves their defects,
Even their worst their best, their worst wrongs,
Which in me, who, both with thee and with thee
Myself in thee, is thought to live;
And what I love, such as that I hate
That which in me thou writest,
Myself in me wills, and it being
Sustains to love the defects therein;
So 'tis my love that truly kills
The sins that are foresworn in thee,
And my love that lives till all those that are told,
  That 'tis my love and true love


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that thy self is mixed with thine own love,
Whose part thou in it belongeth to thyself.
Have my sense and mine own view
The way that thyself doth view my thoughts,
Or to my thought my thoughts thyself,
Thy argument with me that thee be my prisoner.
Be as myself, though not your thoughts are in my body.
O, not all my thoughts, which belong not to myself,
But all thy thoughts, which thou so me,
Have a view that my mind is mine own.
  Therefore take care not to love, and


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
A flutter of heat, low in rank,
A poetically fragrant stain on the bright
Of the day, and all the dull feathers of her breast
All over the better wretches in gentle hue,
Shall beiled with this flier.
The swine in this look, from their chappelle,
Speak the very truth, and allege they were
That in this heat of wrack,
In all their frown and that of sin,
Were-dangled thorns to the height of mead,
And which afterwards their swine drool for their lust,

