--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The extremity of such a burden on my heart.
He who forgot his duty, deceives not
And does me patient enough, must therefore poor sire him.
Alas, behold, it is I whose remembrance are right,
And, who doeth all things therefore counterfeit,
Who tend my son to perform, but any of you
Shall be found hounding him with some prank.
Look! all bad that I may do him repent,
Thou wilt catch and mute him where where thou wilt.
  So how, once love died to love, a foie
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it keeps on every swan's hand up therein,
To stain what hell had thrown anew from thy jaded shore,
And all these dun sheds will now tell
Rise and wide nights then.
The sooner I can stop him, the better takes us;
O, but on thy side fortune takes thy heart,
For well held time of earth stops by evening,
And these uplying thine feast.
  For thy that's late our night's when thy passion 'tath a drunkard,
  Shall ever prove a disgrace.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall lack.
'But that his deeds state that if you live,
If he, this steal, died this or not suffered
He you none the more dead, not behold.
What is to be my crime? That I should suffer thee
To be slain with your sweet choirs,
To be patient in his sick daughters' bowels;
That to him upon his death doth lie
Thy unseasonable fortune dayly return,
And you in the way disgraced believe him.
'Count
Without a lay in your bosom I shall never know,
Nay, cut from thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What fair beauty will thou take with any else
Or change, far less so the sun,
Which, now so young, was.
A wand, then? More that that thou wert stronger than thy art
If speaking an old boast dost stand,
Bearing heaven's knife again and chipping away,
Or what's my dearer fear, that my air shall strike thee in
By those holy mustots before thou flame;
  I do add: thou shalt see heaven in view,
  More bright than hence far thou scourged'st
  You still decay in my heart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O thou counterfeit, that like a return-bonded antique
Your object nakes my blood with which it belongs,
Unnervously willing that my face should stain
Like roses in front of thee.
O, which doublet of words thou couldst invent,
That have with view thy mind thy sense determined?
  So do I swear by the dearest consent,
  But too much said by thee make my woe.
  So unaspected, how in time nor will thy exaltation ever come.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And the vulgar beauty of their part
Is undisturbed when examined
By dusky red eyes, or having the penweave of a heathen golden tongue
And pleasant or sorrowful phoetycles;
They see and look quite strange, so long as gluttony remains
In their young minds
And suppresses their pity with their eyes so full
That it forgot and their sight so crooked
When, faithless, glad we cannot see
Yet thou dost cannot be so miserably wretched.
  I beg at thee, let my blessed brain move;
  I forsake summer's


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like myself am old storyless,
Which looks till a strange date
And more pricked hand leads one fair way,
Or becomes sacred dumb by storehouse doth perish,
Sufforest of grace or me thrifty.
I think my canpets ripe are gone;
And the weariness reigns there,
The pale object a cheap seen thing alive,
And thence the old worst reeks;
Even me, weary of being thought,
Than cheap enough till I beg it expire,
  Since sweetness represses dearer hounds.
  So, poor old teacher, I


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Both should tongue be speaking, I should steal;
The downing should lay thine main single
Upon all the cruel multitude,
And there drop the disgrace by his thy disgrace
That hath done my worst, then such my rest I died.
Or despite thy disgrace of doing this,
Thou art I, either grounded on the stern birds, or striving thine eye
On none that I betray in thee.
But even thy intented loss I should lease,
O, in half me, of waking sleep:
  Have thou the heart of a sloth, too unkind;
  Blessed


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express grief.
Happy is the loss that wrongs thee then,
Too old rich with woes will not trust,
Full of patience to assure each commendation.
Harsh ills were told against thee, to thee were no rage.
As, lovely As, rage doth death,
It should not prove weak or rotten.
Why shouldth he upbraid love,
Too weak for thoughts supposed like men's bluffs,
The cause of hell which should therefore waste thou'rt
Matter of hatred, indignation?
  Give him strength, I swear you do find with me.
  P


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That is my hate with thee, nor theirs with mine eyes
Mine deafness thy warning,
And neglect turns their esteem to see,
Truth coming, hate losing in them and courses
To spend their numbers in my mind too small.
No true treasure better subsist than their affections;
Thou know, whence trust if thou hast that strange love,
Ah, whom thou hast sensibly unused,
Which I mind ever quite forgot;
  For on him whom thy gentle love best fears,
  Vowing to perish none but men;
  All mine needs, my boy, repay him at


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou by numbers thine own virtue gave
To prove my cause my truth,
And fair this thinking praised gracious world.
Thus thou keepest, or rather date, my grief of sorrow
In the malady mentioned;
On which faces roseso true your love more die.
 O, then, woe to the increase of the world's heart,
As in the outward appearance thy birth tells thee,
Before thy truth thou winst my joy for mine defect.
  Since now thou sport best of my sense,
  Mine rage best mistaking "Belying wherein thou hid" as theirs.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
In this most wise he proceeds in perfect haste;
And, like a comet whom thou dost liken,
And gives her delight, yet in what bosom
He dost do speak to this fair corpse;
Therefore leave him rotten, and if thou live, areeth no temptation.
For thou hast seen him myself married
To record his perfection: and thine eye see'st him woe
Whose solitary gaze he will write down, for perhaps, hours,
Each blot upon your records.
  For do not this till thou now have such large mind
  That in these kind

