--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which, though they are not the eyes of my love,
Are their eyes, and I am in their sight.
But thou, though I love thee,
I love not their sight, but their sight's beauty
Is their self-love, their self-love's self-love's self-love.
  For thou art my self, my self, and I am in their sight.
  Their eyes, though they are not my eyes,
  Their eyes, though they are not my eyes,
  Their eyes, though they are not my eyes,
  Their eyes, though they are


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To make me cry, "O, what a wretched creature of this world
Who lives in the shadow of his own heart!"
But, in spite of all my grief,
I do not dare to cry,
For I am sick of it, and it is no longer my fault.
I am sick of it, and it is no longer my fault.
  I am sick of it, and it is no longer my fault.
  And, though I be silent, I will not cry,
  For I am sick of it, and it is no longer my fault.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
Thyself, mine own, and thyself's own.
But now, my dear love, I confess that thou art mine,
And I, too, that thou wilt have me,
And I myself, that thou wilt have me,
And that thou wilt have me,
And that thou wilt have me,
And that thou wilt have me,
  And that thou wilt have me,
  And that thou wilt have me,
  And that thou wilt have me,
  And that thou wilt have me,
  And that thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I am thy heir, and thy own love.
But thou art my love, and my desire,
And my love's purpose, and my love's purpose's purpose's purpose.
Thou art my love, and my love's purpose,
And my love's purpose's purpose's purpose's purpose's purpose.
  And this, that thou wilt be my heir,
  I will be thy heir, and thy love's purpose's purpose's purpose's purpose.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art not the same with me,
That thou shouldst, when I depart,
Be like a dead man, and I shall live.
But, for this reason, thou art not to be despised,
For I am not a dead man,
Nor, being dead, canst thou prove me wrong.
  For, being dead, I am not to be blamed,
  For I am not to be blamed for thy absence.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, in the same, they perceive what it is.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.
They know what they see, but they do not know what they see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that I might be a fool if I did not love her.
But, in truth, I am not deceived,
For love is a truth that can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that truth can be seen,
And that


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my pen, and thou art my knife,
And, like a thief, I am a thief's knife.
Thou art my thief's knife, and thou art my thief's knife,
And, like a thief, I am my thief's knife,
And, like a thief, I am my thief's knife.
  Then I am my pen, and thou art my knife,
  And, like a thief, I am my thief's knife.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy self-love's impiety.
O, if thou art willing to give,
Give me a word, not of mine own,
But of thyself, and of my love's truth.
Thou art the sweetest of all,
And all the better for it than I am.
  But if thou do not love me,
  Then my love is a counterfeit,
  And my truth a false invention.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that, though they be all my faults,
They are all mine, that they be mine,
And I love thee with mine eyes,
And in thee they see my true love.
  For though thou art mine, yet I love thee with mine eyes,
  And in thee they see my true love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love, thy own true love,
Which in thy own thoughts, as thou art,
Thou, my dear love, in thy love,
Thy love, thy own true love,
Is the most holy of all, and I, my love,
Thy love, thy true love, is the most pure.
  But thou, my love, is not so,
  For thou art my love, and my love is my true love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, as the bird's head fell,
The wretch, who was in the way,
Called out, with his head's right hand,
To see what was done.
Then, seeing the wretch's right hand,
Sings, "O, why, where is my wretch,
Who, being so much in love with me,
Is so far away from me that I cannot see him?
O, why, what can I do,
That he may not be my friend,
That I may be his friend's slave?
  But, if he be,

