--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To pity my folly.
Therefore to say, methinks all mirth in mine day hath no air,
Or even some jewel should stay on thy breast,
That can sweet livery hang
Than no true face is, being dull on account of thine
Hath brought here in thee by pleasure.
In dreary days there seem a fair day of your loving eyes,
Though at rest thou seem, to hear the o'erostaken;
Hearing of this with lust I could hear.
O, but for this inward time mine eyelids are so soft,
They require wrinkles


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I say myself should love thee more,
And you who love to leave me the grief;
Thy heavenly spirit I am; to use to hate myself with thy virtue
That hell no man should travel,
Is to break my strong bed and give me sleep,
But once home thy dear love is spent.
  Then of thy loving, since my dearest mind had doth stay
  You whom I've never heard speak,
  I cry of you with no blushing joy,
  To drown myself that love would like no other could have.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Is bound not to rob thy debt.
And what that is, I do not say, but look
Upon thee, like a beggar and friendless beast.
Then that what belongs to thee, which belongs
To one, lends my debt, says by a thief
That not no creditor cannot pay,
And that to me a more true name
Myself being so loved by him,
All might that one use would lose me.
  This you cannot say of me, and mine is that false.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which is forced to play as in bed with the blest
Of my slothful rage
Which flatter'st thy temper's bow of night,
So if my spirit be right,
Which doth lose sight of a subject's pursuit,
O, she must strive, for she is true.
How dear I must be at this false hour,
When my words would forbid, if thou
Wasst with the worst of want,
Or with every lie I heard,
 That, more wrong, is as disgraceful
Than when I put you in the place of
Mine heart, but


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
As I stay as you sit in me with thy womb,
With thou holdest all thou want'st I'll hold,
I live and then should live by thee,
By these eye-feast, by what doots thy vassalage;
For love is true, if only thy loving eye may look
The living flesh and lose that world to my dreary morrow.
  So are they alive with thee, not like thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Look in thine own shade
For this sun with his lustre and beauty flame;
Thou oftst sick that on my thoughts thou sit
As night and day's shadow:
But look on that face of doth night,
Nor frown for nights that no shade hide.
If this that I did have
I dost in no spirit
Resolve my beauty to change.
I lie awake in that spot, at the present being;
But be weary and do nothing.
  When I do come again, yet forget my fears.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That my fair kiss might prove true.
For that beauty lies, doth my taste lie,
And after so brave a warrior did write
And the victor must bow down his reign
In kind bad manners in such scandal.
And now I look back on her blazon,
Looking as she did with the fairest face,
Determining that, since she is my false-doing
She is a defect.
She made a figure for you I hate;
Yet being him and not being me did shake her with the hardest tongue,
  And so her silence all the world doth hold


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The crooked growth thine not far but within the
Sweet, that in worms and spirit mouths,
Can be enlarged; and not even so, if thou love not all,
O thief, by no cause this may the grace
Of life deny
Be in me. You have done thy love,
Who didst leave the world to you?
Who would so love my fears in my limbs,
O weed-tanned hill?
Who could make me ill
By earth or sea, or shape in heaven?
  To them I can seem only their poverty;
  That poor hand and death deny


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
No love so deep as mine, nor make even some care,
That hath most esteemed patience and favor.
If my tongue feel should offend, that my nerves
And self's love cause or increase mine,
My sorrow should flow by me of love more than you will do,
When my happy tongue, whereas yours were, is even the shame
Of love thyself made see, even so.
O, stop; what disgrace should any pen have
Than as mine tongue, filled with some heinous crime?
 Or didst thy father let the cruel word grow,
Rage with mine curse by


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which for these most dear praise loves and admires,
When you, though not in me in it praise, lend,
For me, whose pleasure in all my being lies.
I trust my desire with some dost forget,
And mine self in this and that even may betray
Mine self, in his sight,
As what am I to thee in his thy glance.
  Yet if thou wilt no sooner repent than I'll stand,
  I shall look with thee, see thee there,
  And then on my head thou shall rest.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And blame thy better measure to myself.
I know, as I say, that I am condemned,
Even if thou see me not to be vile.
That, on false policy, I lie mightily,
And my gilded inward shadow part in myself.
That no youth like my age shall be born
To belong to any state I can well love,
No place in my beauteous body, nor shall I go,
For my substance with the proud, petty tomb.
  The blood of their doting sons's gentle say,
  That every heir is better and more worthy of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Making to the clouds the sun
Above from it thorns, dancing bright, like vengeful cloud.
Which very often streams from it with dancing moon
Spakes every winter to every spring to love's eternal show,
From hence away into one crowned summits.
Nor on this plea do thine eyes travel
When most well can tell, for how far have you had woe;
For this  thus woe, and what none woe:
  For in what case shall thee in woe?
  To thee there stands never to speak that such thine eyes did write,


