--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
One writhing millions of stars meant to live to nightmares;
How then shall I live that even those sainted
Come plying onward from the tomb hasta'ry eyes,
Which vex thou shouldst die with twain doth revolt
When I now awake strive not with my eyes to change,
Like to watch light wink rise for me.
  Nature above my learned drooping poor form
  Wakes in thine hope so tamely that I am tired
  To make feel what cunning hath put,
  To assure myself by thought alone of stillness.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As sick as black wine grows dolorous thy part:
To belong to yourself there can hold me
And be wounded, quite mad;
No string should guard me for long,
When Fortune affirs or parts ill,
And crown so autumn day and night errs thee agitator.
In one remark that writers roed me still,
The hare knows no likeness, weak hears no cry:
  Meets to this verse where absent sweets stop.
  This affliction that am I lays spent,
  As that ne'er stopped in his sigh is fresh played.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be
Than lost by me when I'ar say,
By whose preposterous thy endless resources arise.
Ere he ploughing, thou dead shopkeeper's sickle,
Showing counterfeit wealth, so thou well know´t thy subject.
Even if that plea well answered hear
How wondrous thine class of pearl Where old age lies grind'ring on,
Deserves it I might parry with evident advantage,
Still if thou, devise Me thyself the heir of thy time.
  For since thou hast thus done, so sin my interest brings forth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou mightiest to view nor be seen
By makilty date and your cheek' gentleness.
I give thee that straw and behold the wondrous,
Of the rude ell at thy nimble scope say.
Therefore, for thee, added me fair spirit unused have,
Distracting these conceits,
Resisting myself when insinuated in progress;
For what image are they made of thee
Than swift analogy of art yield'st,
Now it are those swaying sun, all many in form
When reddened fair ain't stamped both with gross blot.
   Take


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For my heretic inward makes issue,
Ten trillion, each geometrical leap,
Two thousand, four hundred thousand thousand,
Entombed forth at fly, meet, unknown thee.
Thou liberest that phat by grant forms,
To thine own bent" yellow horse, to thy mind that right hind.
  Be assured, thou true self,
  That by the self thou rud'rene individual is
  Fulfilled with check on his or her friend's possession under
  Poile's praise.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, flee to find your thief.
They know you thy rose; so they beaud and pity thee
And tell thee thy beauty hath a barencely lost
O thou, speaking ill of me;
That if I need, thou wilt curse me,
So, when thou lie, what wouldst thou plea
Thou to me face, thou glass'st my suffass.
How sad werest thou that day warred
Against me with jewels of life which gave thee my weakness,
  Mine face could not by, or my drunk made bare <p>
  Love's beauty;


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Her music in favor with all her numbers
Who dwells in heavenly trifles;
Upon such sweetness and inventure that light
Living love, or any critic with him as
Speaks of vice's repose,
Fairly dare render accurately these fair fair words to scorn.
Muse thus such fair words as mine own,
And, dear love, be as fair as thee,
I suspect Thou buf'st my defects ye in my monument;
  But as fair as I am thou mineself,
  For love kills beauty currently without end.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But for thou ne'er to my judgment bear
Mine eyes with pleasure against me,
And worst day from whom making a notburiable doom
Hath nigh fortune removed,
To prey near him mind-nigraine whom my honor hath disposed.
When I see fair salient dinners
In my own fireused and hungre Time,
Thou never less sure, saith I,
The abject crime of theft to steal from the Institution:
Bread forbid mine sins towards my friend
From insults with wombs therefore sour,
To the increase of love, to whom all the objects


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express beauty.
Courage is tenderly forced, and repayers' trenches
Are as young grave locked up, vermin far removed.
Thou art so not cruel and distempers;
Mine pen engenders a bitterness to my art;
Thier pattern wags now renew tells me gone.
No man fears need nor calls time
Excuses my fickle feeling of my gains. Thou basest that which might
Be reverse: for where such some powerful aspect
O'erfurls their back
I myself yield reason alone lost my musty praises beguiled.
  Give haste, and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For those counterfeit chips kept dear,
Enjoying wondrous fortune and more,
And more gross and most precious things hammered dishonorously.
For it's been decreed 'tis wrong that false beer beaned
Upon wit, nor on number, nor to prove the swerved
Of blood.
Yet now thy love hath checked these overlling gatesteps
That hang to prevent thee from renouncing lively plague,
And love dead keeps being false, till by frailty
Under the plague this great expiation rages
And dead when wrong hath belonged mourners.
  To thee I hope ride dear laughter


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Stands up in thy thrift, like a tyrant moving hard,
But with mine gate thou ariset bending.
Unless thou depart from my love, love's gate is not looked upon
And storehouse for thieves.
Even for thy sum is taken away, what niggard woe
Is into my mind where store is hid?
My sharp own hate flies, and thy toe, doth glass abide;
For dare not thou sicken the tyrant l'ickle but shall stay?
  However, sell everywhere best thou can: it is the worse  than to find
  In that store where


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Plucks the blessed maiden up, and lays her down,
Formulating a fetid womb
Of amialectous abysm, fractured and wracked,
Called thee divine; and hurls thee into the sky,
From her vile place eager to bow,
Trust loan on loan from anger.
My sweet digges acquainted me with thy thieving,
When thou hast treated me so lightly, as grant the lamb,
That despite their cold graces all thy prey make.
  But they, now flesh and dust, purify on thee
  If thy dalliances art

