--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making their faces bright and their mouths full of tears,
And then, seeing my plight, they mock me with grief.
They say I am poor, that I am poor,
And that I am not worth to thee,
And they have given me this false excuse,
That I am not worth to thee.
But I love thee, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making their faces bright and their mouths full of tears.
  Then, seeing my plight, they mock me with grief.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or to say that I am, in some sort, sad?
If it were, I should be a wretched creature,
And I should say, 'Tis true, and true, that my heart is in some sort sad.
I am not all that sad, but my heart is sad,
And sad I am, that in some sort of bad state,
My heart's beauty is drained away,
And then I am nothing but a sad and wretched creature.
  Then, if I should have been so, my heart would not be so sad,
  Or I would not be so sad,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
And give me back my own by thy will,
And, being thus, I'll be my own slave.
Thou art my slave, my self I'll be,
And, in the false state of my true self,
I'll be my own slave, my self I'll be,
And, being thus, I'll be my own slave
  And, being thus, I'll be my own slave
  To thee I will be my self,
  To thee I will be thy self,
  To thee I will be thy self,
  To thee I will be thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I love thee more than thou dost love me.
But, when I am gone, thou art still,
And my love shall not be with me,
Nor will I be, nor my love with thee be.
Thou art my love, and so I am,
And yet I have not the right to be.
  So, love, thou shalt not be,
  And I will not be, nor will I be,
  Wherefore I do not love thee,
  Even if thou, love, make me believe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, thou art my doom, my love, thy love's ransom,
That thy love's blood may be blessed,
And that thou mayst live to thy death,
That thy love's blood may live in thee,
And that thy love's blood may live in thee,
That thou mayst live to thy death,
That thy love's blood may live in thee,
And that thy love's blood may live in thee,
  For the love's blood's blood is thy life's ransom.
  But thou art mine, my love, my love's ransom,
  And I have


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see it, but not with their eyes,
But with their eyes they see,
And they see, but not with their eyes
That they see and see not what they see,
For they know not what they see but with their eyes
They see not what they see but with their eyes
They see not what they see but with their eyes
  But they see not what they see
  And they see not what they see
  But they see not what they see
  And they see not what they see
  But they see not what they see
  And they see not what they see


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And do not my love's love's love's love's love lie.
But now, being assured that I am made of truth,
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And do not my love's love's love's love's love lie.
  So I do believe her though I know she lies.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my friend, my self-love,
That in thy spirit, in thy substance
Myself thyself, will be my friend.
The love of my self shall be thy love,
And in thee thyself thyself shall be my friend.
But if thou do not love me,
Thou art my friend, my self-love,
And in thee thou shalt be my friend.
  For thou art my friend, my self-love,
  And in thee thou shalt be my friend.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My thoughts with more than words.
Thou art not mine, mine alone,
That I should be my own worst,
And when I speak, that I do not say
But the words which thou hast given me.
I love thy love, and I do not love thee
But thou, my love, the most of all my fears.
  And I am so, and thou so,
  That I will not be my worst friend.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I do love thee so,
That thou mayst be my love, that I may know
The true state of my heart from thee.
Thou art my friend, my friend's friend, my friend's friend,
That I may not be so blind as thou art,
That I may see thy self in thy beauty,
And thou mayst see my thoughts in thy thoughts,
That thou mayst not be my friend.
  So, in truth, thou art my love, my friend's friend's friend.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but with mine own friend's own love,
O, but with thy own heart's sweet love,
Thou art my friend, my friend's love's friend.
O, but with my friend's love's love's friend
Thou art my friend, my friend's friend's friend's friend.
  But with mine friend's friend's friend's friend's friend
  I am his friend, his friend's friend's friend's friend.
  But with mine friend's friend's friend's friend's friend's friend  I am his friend, his friend's friend's friend's friend's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
If the child's babe, the womb of her womb
Doth not be slain,
She will be the true babe, not the thief;
The thief, like a tyrant,
Is in her possession; and when he is gone,
Her blood is no more, no less.
When he is gone, the thief will not be,
Nor will she be.
The thief, like a tyrant,
Is in her possession; and when he is gone,
Her blood is no more, no less.
  She will be, not thief, but true thief.

