--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For shame and scorn in their eyes.
But, seeing that I love thee,
Thy eyes, like eyes of the dead,
And my heart, like my soul,
Be not as their love's fair,
But as thy eyes doth show,
Thy beauty's eye, like thy heart,
Which in the outward eye doth show,
Is not thy love's fair,
But like thy heart's fair,
As thy heart's fair,
Thy beauty's eye, like thy heart's fair,
  Makes me look to thee in the sight.
  For I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am willing to love thee,
And thou, too, that gives me hope.
I love thee with all my heart,
And thou, too, that gives me hope.
  So that thou, too, that gives me hope,
  Shall I be my friend, too, and be happy.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
As well, for I am no longer your friend.
So, now, in my grief, thou art my friend,
Thy love, thy good, thy true love,
The better for me than for thee.
Thy heart's desire, thy heart's desire,
My love, thy love, thy love,
The more thy heart's desire be,
The more thy heart's desire be,
The more thy heart's desire be,
  And I shall never be his friend again.
  Then, by thy love, thou art my friend,
  And I shall never


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to thee this is thy gift,
And if I can do it, thou must I give.
When thou, my love, have I to leave,
Thou alone, the sweetest of all,
And to my love's side I can give,
And I, to thee this is thy doom.
  To thee this I have done my part,
  To love this, to love this, to love this,
  To love this, to love this, to love this,
  To love this, to love this, to love this,
  To love this, to love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, dear, I love thee so much,
That I will not be blamed for thy wrong,
For, being your sweetest, I am your dearest friend.
Be assured that I will not be condemned,
For thou art mine own child,
And that, being my sweetest, I am thy love's sweetest.
  So, if I find thee, let me be thy friend.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And their minds know not what they see,
But what they see, they know not what they see.
They see not what thou see'st,
But what thou see'st thou see'st.
They see not what thou see'st,
But what thou see'st thou see'st.
They see not what thou see'st,
But what thou see'st thou see'st.
  Then thou wilt be blind,
  For thou see'st what thou see'st,
  And what thou see'st thou see'st.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And not be taken from me by her false tongue.
She is the true mother of all my dreams,
And of all my fears and fears of the world.
I believe she was created to live in my love,
And that she is the true, loving child of my love.
But this is false, that she is a false god,
And that I do believe she is false.
  I believe she was created to be my love,
  To be my child's body and to live in my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art the best, my dear friend,
The best that I can find,
For I love thee with all my heart,
And, for love's sake, I say I am the worst.
Yet thou art my friend, my dear friend,
Thou, my dear friend, the best that I can find.
  But I am so far from thee that I do not love thee.
  You are my friend, my dear friend,
  And I love thee so much that I am sick of thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sorrows in the least of their kind.
For that I love thee, do not let thy lips be silent
As thou art in my heart,
Nor speak with my tongue, nor breathe with my heart.
Thou art my friend, my love, my love's sweetest muse,
And yet thou art not so,
For I am not so, but thou art my friend.
  I love thee so, that thou shouldst be my friend,
  And I am thy friend's friend, and thy friend's sweetest muse.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I have in my heart that keeps it straight.
The heart that loves thee, it is my heart that doth bear it,
And that, though it be a dulled heart,
The thought of thee it will not know.
When I hear thee, I love thee more than I love thee.
When I see thee, I love thee more than I love thee.
  I love thee more than I love thee,
  And that is why I do not love thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love, which is my love,
Is not a defect, but a defect of mine own,
To this I should have been cured,
That I might have been born again, and to this my state
The world would have shown thee my love,
For thy love is not a defect, but a defect of mine own.
  And if I have been born again,
  Then thou shouldst love me as I love thee,
  And this is thy true love, that thou mayst be my true love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
As if she were a woman, with her head on her
Making a knife of thorns.
O, what a lovely maiden, when she's not
Making thyself so much partaker of thy blood,
And then thou wilt be thy child,
That thy love may be your true love,
And thy worth thyself thy pride,
And thy self so rich that thou wilt lose.
  So, all, in love, do not fear thy being,
  But be sure that thyself thou wilt be thy true love.

