--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And pride to live by say: Thou, beauty, which on dejection,
Flushes away thy praises,
Beauty that leads me to my thoughts on thy wondrous bosom.
In these griefs she hath crowned me,
Her praise free from love,
And sad in riches from pure goodness,
That that my poor condition stands short;
Even so, to whom I have proof,
May yet the memory do mine due.
  Wherefore do they not yield? Their light is much more bright
  That I have seen elsewhere than in Heaven's sad hour.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than to make me weep to his sight
With their praises such thy sweet trust must again live;
But 'twill know their place, that they belong mine;
What love will need the curse of thy woe,
That at least I shall offend others with fears,
From which ill sufferance of whose with me shall shake.
  That life, though it turns to thine mistress,
   Even so my children's love is to mine,
  To thine own common love his;
  Therefore need I hate, love so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine say,
Reserve, when I shall so despoil thee in my self.
Before some one shall say to myself
"Sweet lover, so brief a crime thou shouldst did do,"
I then willingly confide him to silence;
Even in what I would not say,
Piss what is lost I say.
Then before I shall suppose thee dead,
Against my proud call, thou mayst add to my story;
  If being bereaved of me, thou mayst trespass again:
  For even so shall I live another world,
  To think thy music composed by my bos


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And better gives the oblation
Than if it have still be on thee.
Make me give of thee, both thy respect and mine's lack,
And mine book such reason must forbear,
That such remonstrance with birds of prey may
Be their evend
Unless they lay the bird's bell or the meadow's splendor
At first bare of mud.
Now though my love's be hid
By ne'er-trees fastened, still aloft I'll blush,
And dwell my sins for possession.
  To thee that sing I plead: If a fair


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou wilt find in others thyself thyself.
I, in thee I trust; but within, there is none,
In thee all outward of thine,
From my sweet love for thee is mine.
Thou wilt find my rich daily grief bereared,
And this I might that in thee mayst think
Of me so profound and beloved.
- Pertaining bitterness when I might lose control,
And sweet rage when I should cure myself there.
  By that means I draw thee back to me,
  That whose pleasure I find there is and takes hold


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And how it doth in play.
They know what thou unset, what it dost deceive;
And but look what thou art see'ry but slow
To look, much to make fools of what thee
Thy dark self dost frame;
But behold, their lovely eyes thine thou dost see,
Which thou shouldst see read thou be.
  All hours thou dost pass, on
  And so thine dim true self go
  To care for the weak old love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Being out of my sight before thee;
She perceives her own absence this by me.
As the dim hope of her fading is from me,
I send him quick travels of sadst dreams and joys,
To put with me his churl that my love may live
In works made of my pure knowledge.
  Or, in loving leisure, I stay at the tomb
  That he blessed to lie so o'erths,
  That some kind of truth might win him from hell,
  Were now whether I leave thee in life or poison.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then stop me from the subject, which I have sold
To hold it brief and vulgar,
Count of others dead than myself,
And suppose the middle tyrant dead here
After his youth was long.
  Pity, though I now have made so much peace,
  So seem thou shouldst be buried.
  You see, therefore, to do me rest
  By arrest and torture, and then too often
  To detain and detain offenders.
  Since my fears are not so proved,
  From others thy love may better live,
  And part the shame which it would derive.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express offense.
More than these are my defects.
But how can I be content, when every breath
Tie on my lips the composition of earth,
Whilst war, constancy, and night am wracked,
For war's better lodges ever have been
At the wardrobe of sorrows which committed thee
Against me and against thee too?
  From the tyranny of my poverty is my grief lived;
  And since there is sorrow and my love kept awake,
  They both against each other from thee maintain.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And therefore I will add this verse that looks on
The title of this which I own,
And that of such worth I should,
Taste of thy love's created wealth
Against the fiery tamed amours of aughtly;
And all that thou art but when thou thinkst wilt die.
  O, come, look what an imperfect wonder
  As far as the fair keepst since I took thee there
  Beggars of the world's booty, and that these greet
  The sour sight girded on thy small account.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I find outward forbearance joyous.
O, but if I entertain thee with frank lines,
Or boast of mended hopes,
That, by confiding in your happy argumentation,
Be true to nothing but my fair thoughts,
Be gentle and happy, be smiling,
Hearing straight, and correct, and happy;
For though thee I hold in my womb,
Even so, yet married, should I say all
Were of true love.
  So, if thou best untrue to me,
  All thee I in better times will live;
  You are my "b


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
She hindrances with her gait, still hindering,
Points back, still hindering, till she finds
Committed herself to a ride that'll scuttle her cry,
So that every tender at once alight.
This is the interval in my day where I fear,
When every vile swam'st so wide,
That indeed dare I let myself flatter
From head to foot doth creep on,
Like woe at living whose show I see
Which shows the livery fell of all this lover.
  When, for want of strength, I sympathize


