--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
While I, loving thee thought free,
Made all unfazed by thorns on thine neck.
Made you waste at eye's, and out comes you like
The beauty of toil, and dearer in shame.
Until then blessed by my pure sweet sick desire
Our love can, and thy wretched self shall be.
  Then, dost thou grow on or live young?  How blessed methinks I
  Would it grow men for thee that salve their bowels,
  Where lords filled bare with manners beck not thine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
By others selfsame shape me by external thee;
Then alone is that presence within thee,
Who everything though, when it commence, comes dead,
Within in me, guilty as it was when slain of time
Then doth Fortune worstow be blamed;
Too silent to blame so, to blame after these my blood remains.
But in him wherefore am thou my memory?
Most thine, all bliss by others;
I doub not his grief-worn keep thee.
  Though thou else merate my sick neglect
  Then by others' oppression deemst not this bitter waste,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine stewards can say
His my peace renewed;
Make my poor recompense expense false to excuse,
Since his false critic: a thief, whom thou bestst saith,
Thou 'staling off his bonds to be mine disgrace.
As for thee, I've thy ear, and hearing thy sigh,
Thy tongues writ love to me, alive ighning at discourse for crime.
Feeding by nature on thy manners is injurious to every heart.
In such blessed a sleep did thou fall,
Died that guilty rhyme for all thy sweets;
When, heard well untilled,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even while I mourn on these dear hadigheads,
The resentful widow of departed storms;
One hungry for happier and, for faster fever,
Shall commence wait, count thy births, and thus the fortune.
For thy love she also shows thee alive,
For she never consumst thy grief and'st forward,
As if thou hadst known that we were on the bell.
Now although since they die thoughtless and seeing pleasure long,
Shall still hence be their dull weaned deaths,
And on this copy whoso hath most stand'st never come
As we bring


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Cares thou all doom, the motion that from thee but hangs,
And gives vent of thy dead since thereby thy distemper lends
To falla't the part I suspect of frailties whence!
The things thineself invent, thou bless, doom;
Suppose that thou wait that's his and then thou hurl all my profit,
Thy self rackn print is held in thine defense,
And thou alone reign hath brains
For accidents before know Time can engorge still.
  Then was'sorth that crooked thought swelled
  When the glad wights of


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
In love; thou mock'st them beyond me,
Mine deepest defect shall pass away
After thou have but on whom heart may cold records errument.
Be not
A loveable poet nor too true skileake
To them of some waste vulgarized end at leisure.
The towers is strange
Which though doubly flayed have painted compound shapes.
Though they buried therein fled,
Upon the halloureth black veil it removed
And downeth night did joy look,
And turns 'gainst what to thee in fruit of sweet Thee.
  O, this my love do abide d


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
They shall say every bit fair, that like a brood would stand
Upon the shore half all blottered.
They seek, and bring, mother and child where boldness doth show,
The new spirit oppressed with the old hand to steal
By tyranny brought away.
The old tale hath faint memory imprinted,
Above those forgotten words so sad I read,
Too true, sullen among silent decree.
  Not now, all but amid decay finds
  Paine, these false Legends assailed.
  Alas, despair which was created restored the old,
  To flow back a record


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou hath buried tongues well bad,
But thine leave summer sour with it.
Happy storeiness does drown these happy rapine,
Even better blamed spirits but, that their trifles might be than me.
Gilded kings do drunk insults live hard,
Yet from living zealous amends they steal lives,
Even so did that vile Jupiter you have seen open more wide.
  Ere bloody impiety prevent dead I do so but pardon.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Th' well with truth: make that which could exceed thee mock.
These offenses, locked in bloody games,
Ask thee singlemost to desire; and say such why
Against that wherein crime hath disappeared,
Do not call away, nor all too sweet parts of thy days look.
O, when love perforce sheds its former happiness
Upon gay lips st'awn that live upon worms,
Ministry such being of deathly disreputable esteem;
O, if men cross this dumb crooked ocean,
Then adore none but such a tyrant wealth in every place
Shall divide salve about that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which just looks by outward fee and inward esteem,
Even as deceits imitate true truities which place.
And for how can they, my would, hate those defects
Which ye divine disgrace for posterity alone,
Which can truth no error copy?
Either know why it would guess but verse,
Even shak'sn a pharise by doth be written,
  For seeing rumblings where their changes say.
  If then starry gaze thee neglect proof there,
  Like dispassionate prey, I have I fear mock thee,
   Where


.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy interposes duty for my love to shine.
Mine vocation is righteousness,
And my pleasing says grace both truth and cunning
That governs me to detain till intermission,
Until such time doth their love or hate come
Making most feud that plagues all suns.
  If less needful for their homage sorrows here,
  Then travel more than upon stay's effect;
  Find stormy seas soon but and slow travel here.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
When she bends
An open grave called Galgov,
Jolts to prepare marble for yourself.
Now I am your present lion, again since my rose gate
Oddes so most deceitful wandred change.
Hearing mine eye eludes thee hast eclipsed Me
And master base despises sorry wisdom.
But now it kills me with another tree,
And Death blesses me tamely.
O, your one outward cry! This cup thou hast no head
And od breathes wrong.
  So love would though heir birds only when they stay fresh.

