--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy picture cannot make any difference.
I have seen thee frown on black night,
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
But thou my beauteous blessings have not made me any clearer.
Thine eyes I view in thy heart
Are partly false, and partly bright
But, like thy shadow, they are but shadows;
For thy true image in thy sight
Comes true, and I in thee.
  To this I witness call thine own false slander,
  Which slander as I think proceeds.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For there is more to love than in hearts can abide.
How can I then bewitch the world,
By seeing my heart untrue,
How can I bewitch the dear reproach of heart,
How can I bewitch the world,
By seeing my heart untrue to me?
O, I never wert thou first created,
My deepest sense being buried in the world.
  Then, if thou wert not removed,
  The world may be my grave and my moan drown.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own bright eyes may see
From thy glass, wherethrough the eternal night
Through open windows of thine own night.
Now, for the first time that eyes have seen me depart
From this store and steal thy dear merit;
Now that eyes have skill,
And skill by knowledge are crowned kings.
Now with this I return rebuked to thee,
Thy open eyes, thy sweet self bright
Within thy glass do witness to my beauteous night.
  And, churls, thy open eyes are as fairest in their judgment
  As high as learning your own.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some newer excuse.
Thou art more temperate than thine own desert
If, on thy appeal, thou prove me wrong.
Inheritance gives thee releasing;
If thou art married to my wife,
My husband shall ransom thee of all thy sum.
  Therefore be thou executor of thy love,
  Since thou art all my jollity and all thy sum.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou art blamed shall not be thy defect?
Thou art blamed if thou art not thy fair,
And graced be if thou art not thy advocate.
Be blamed if thou art not thy advocate and thy tongue be
Thy rhetoric shall outlive this,
And churls shall be thy defense.
  Then thy great merit shall be thy defect,
  And tongue that thy defect hath not said.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, even so, grant they surfeit
By seeing farther than thy own eye canst move?
For, despite of space, thy mind doth keep moving,
Stealing thy moving, not moving thy place.
How far a quest must a fool go to prove
To woo his subjects, to whom thou dost deceive?
Till thou wert left the wert thou wert alone,
And thy images farther off from thee.
  And even thence thou wert forbidden to be,
  Since that thy images were too short, to be shown.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Dark'ning her sacred majesty might unused.
But when my love hears that she hath left me,
Dark'ning my love's use
Dark'ning her sacred majesty might unused.
I grant she hath, or must she say,
Either by thy granting, my love hath,
Either by thy granting, or both.
Either her, my love shall in due appear,
And both her heirs shall live
Despite of decease, though still kept secret.
  She shall live twice--in it and in my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beated thy hand, which now is bent
To correct correction of my abuses.
Thou art more suited to correct correction than thy dear love
Is to my use, being made from thee.
Thou art more lodged in the heart of men
 than tongue, which makes thy invention more strong.
Thou art more temperate and to my ear
Than thy gentle critic who doth invent
To make me tongue-tied speaking.
  And better be than tongue-tied hounds,
  Which use the best of thee to make me sound better.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in a word should put my name,
Too base of thy invention.
If thou wilt use my term interchangeably,
My worst sin shall be thy invention,
Beggared of thy sweet argument, abused of thy invention.
Shall words from thy mouth be well-refined?
Th' endbraves thy argument,
Which shall be most well answered, if not abused of time.
  Incapable of more, replete with blame,
  My most false confess, that I have done thee shame.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou mine eye that doth thine own.
Thou art my all the world, and I must strive
To know thy shames and praises from thy tongue.
Thou art the tenth finger in the pentagon,
The tenth wand, the ten times more in worth
Than those blots that do with thee mock.
Ten times thy worth in ten times my height be
Vowed thy sweet virtue, and thy proud merit twire.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel in the world.
  Yet in thy creation many errors hath my pen crept,
  To


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Notwithstanding thy change, that thou mayst change my mind.
Thou art now the state wherein I abide,
With sovereign d'association gone, and mine own desert,
Beggared of thy change, that my hand mayst move.
The state that thy change doth belong,
Consumed with the greater, by the lesser;
The state that thy change doth belong,
Consumed with the lesser, by the stronger.
  This my thought, that thou mayst change my mind,
  To change my state, and change my life there.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And what fast she woos, what quicker she wanders,
Than swift extremity can jump both sea and land.
How fast can she leap the farthest sea
From the farthest world to call,
Or say with princes if it shall go well
By oft predict that thou hast her speed.
O, let her suffer, being at sea,
Thy steeled chastity shall not slow her pace;
Her husbandry shall be thy gentle spite,
Nor her quietus shall be thy anger.
  She hath but beauty, husbandry, a babe.

