--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All gay in hue and make of an all-out war.
Now they see, and they see but what beauty hath in store
By outward show doth hide,
Whose show I most admired not, nor what good it entailed,
But this poor defect hath my love made more keen.
O, what a mansion have they built
Which through shifting winds hath eased my sorrows much.
  Three of thy beauties now I find;
  Three of thy sins have seen me again.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When my will is swift, my heart is perfect;
So the sooner my heart shall bear that blow,
The sooner my heart hath his due,
The sooner I shall hear his moan.
O, what a torment would that my dear love have!
I have seen many happy lambs,
But in one of their numbers I find a son;
Now these happy lambs meet, and I find another.
O, what a bliss is there in that!
I have seen such fair children as you desire,
Which every good proud looks with fair eyes.
  These present happy tears are more


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May live heir to thy love.
Then hope, now, my love hath confounded
And grown my love's charter hath ranged,
And by now my dear love may be sufficed
And in the prize store put my copy.
Make answer, my love: 'tis mine
And he that lays claim on me shall win;
That is my love's charter still extant,
Although that my deceased love may have some part.
  Presume not, my love, when I die:
  This is the true grave; and thou mayst believe
  The place where my body lies.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than to thee I am a second addition,
And our share in common increase.
So when thou shalt review this wonder,
Be frank and gracious and gracious,
And make acquaintance among friends the learned,
So that in time to come thou mayst part
Upon thy true self proudest boast;
And when that is over done,
Thou mayst get thy change of heart,
Till grief be revenged on thy woe.
  For thou hast 't enough made me first proud,
  To render this first proud my feature.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou departest from me thou dost depart,
And I through thee o'erworn,
Stealing thy treasure from my treasure.
Dost thou steal thy beauty from me,
Shall I joy in thy beauty having,
Or from thyself whom thou dost steal,
Stealing thy beauty's place in thy sight.
Mine own weakness is thy fair,
His weakness being thy love, and mine own love being thee,
How thus shall beauty's legacy survive thee?
  For thee mine own theft dies with thee,
  And my love's legacy lives in thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what good is it, if it deceiveth no eye?
O, look what beauty doth deceiveth!
Look what beauty doth beguile the eye,
And the gracious heart in thy view doth beguile;
When looking into the small of thy sight,
The mortal eye perceiveth not beauty,
But beauty says in thy heart this gluttony:
Give not sweets to hearts that look into thine eyes,
But sweets dost thou steal, sweet love.
  O, so true a fool is love, that in his twain's eye
  Makes


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that my outward form might must blush with pride,
For shame enlivens the cup by varying?
Cue the heavy heart of my love making a show,
O, let her be contented, for I am ravenous,
Feeding a hungry beast that lusts on thee.
No, my love enjoys a perpetual joy;
My love never spites on her,
Nor she that bears it will groan in contentment.
  But that she bears it, and we must give
  That which is most sacred our dear trust.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The mind, that by may of time sweet favor lives,
Bare a mortal wound, barren of hue,
Save that my love may well be proved.
Thou by thy state's injury prove'st not thy good,
Though thou live remembered not for all,
Save where two tinctures meet,
Or all the tribes of the world bear it witness;
Thus by thy state's injury show'st me not,
Nor I that love of friends remembered
May evermore bear this slander in full view.
  I commend thee for thy worth and that of the world.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy own sorrows more clearly than tongue-tied mourners.
Be as thyself fond, and mine own blessed scythe be;
As thy mother tongue, being her wont,
Give thine own right to speak and speak for thee.
Inherited choirs are better equipped
Than those perfumed candles that holy women convert,
And such healthful adulterate sauces are well.
  For thine own true hue belongs
  To thy mother tongue, which by virtue hath passed by.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That my heart oft confounds to the level of frown.
When that frown on mine eye glazed with proud wealth,
Is dispensed, my heart thrusts to the level of frown.
Then what is my joy to find, though many a wondrous find,
Or miracle find, though my soul win
None but my most wondrous feature found.
O, give us thy image, my love's image;
Thou by thy presence am more our than thy hair;
Therefore I approve thy countenance so;
  For thou who art in my moiety holds this title sacred.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As with thy lordship's counterfeit counterfeit,
Hate wherein thy lordship doth live.
Thou sicken in thy own love, now hate'st expressed,
Cannot bear to hear that my voice writ it;
Now thou barest my false affliction am my plea,
And therein is my woe, being heretic,
Lied in thy love's presence, that thy accusing know.
  This being done, lay on me thy cross;
  To lie in wait my appeal would be a much greater sin.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For nativity cries do tend to beauty's sad fever;
And beauty's warm blood is as sweet and brave
As any blood that woos in his tender thro'
Of young self against himself of age's coming.
So thou, sourly sourest, replete
With all her frailties and all her abuses
Stirred by thy sweet self to riot.
  Then would these famines stain thee more;
  So shalt thou be thy beauteous, sour-tasting foe.

