--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet brain chide thy delight.
But whether thy love or mine eye doth doth chide thee,
Till my gilded compound eyes with mine own
Find my thoughts, and take them away,
Till I take thee in their report;
Of thy love, mine eye hath said thee
Beat me upbraves, to whom thou thyself issue.
  In this I learn thy beauty,
  And, to this purpose enacted,
  When pleasure hath done thy fair show.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That worst is more pleasing than love's injury?
O, too good is my love to shunce,
Even to think I can do much wrong;
But how shall my guilty pleasure find room
When thoughts of cruel society throw stones at my heart?
I dare not draw breath in my head
When foes' eyes have stol'n my face;
Nor can enemies fear my reasons why I do them disgrace.
So love confounds his beams even to my grief
When I have cast out his fire to burn.
  But heaven in thy goodness may do gracious and kindle times
  If


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall breed.
Now that my gracious gift hath got hold,
Myself thou hast all the treasure of my heart.
Much of this is wert thou now possessed,
And yet stay thy while this hideous doom doth take.
For now thy sorrow is eased by thy moan
And mine own gentle gift heals thy wound.
Ay, so true a morn leaves thy mind,
And that his active moan heals thee;
  But then thou wilt remember that thou dost be mended.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even to the level where thou art lodged;
Thou dost plead to my countenance,
That I envy thee more than she dost beguile.
Her sweet spite kills me more than any filching stain
Upon thy fair face doth lie.
She hath, by all her graces, the added advantage of shame
Delivering an equal report;
To be confounded she buries her comments with words,
Lest I, scandal as she is, should lose her but by loss.
  Yet this general conceit leads thee away,
  And thou dull and scandalizing woman


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art mine, a counterfeit indigest,
Made a decease in some suspect name,
And, thus with my sinful lust make,
An enforced separation is made.
Thou art mine, and therefore an unwary husband
Seems to thee in tempting thee
To do deeds of single worth prove.
These are the times when my love needs pardon;
So thou nurse's succour proves thee more than ransom.
  Take heed, dear heart of heart, of thy will;
  For thee this my verse surmise lays.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They see what riches is, but what is it not truly?
Thou art so stupendous that within thy brain
Grows up a brutes' nest, top of which are
Our dear lascivious rugs, built fast to weigh
Hast thou where thou canst not thine eye should refine.
In other words, thou art very bright,
Seeking his help, being wooed;
And for thy help in this thy gain
Shall be thy feature, but in mine is thy lie.
  Then by thy help these defects be removed,
  And


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of young lust in false registers deceived.
What can I say that I do believe her to believe?
Nothing at all doubting my love's truth,
But every mendacious slander hath found a home,
And every foul word hath found a home in ground I know.
She who wards for slander shall find,
In falsehood praised for her good report.
  And for her slander I send her aid,
  Receiving Helen's sickle, one of whom receives nourish,
  By attending to my widow's needs.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give no reproach to that honor which mine ear affords
Or of thy gentle virtue in any respect;
Hang on a reproach to this reproach mixed:
Speak, 'tis true, and believe me false;
And if I wilt marry, the world rightly doth my sight,
Since thou outlive my spurring reigned in thee.
Mark how with this reproach my spirit in life begins:
O, no verse to prove my love untrue,
Book what rhetoric I to verse do.
  'Tis better to devise good swatches of words
  To show


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so great a moan.
Be wary of all tongues that use thee,
My dear love being translated is of great help
To persuade neighbouring tongues that I am thy friend.
Thou dost use the utmost of patience
To persuade vulgar Philomel to translate
Thee in thy verse;
All tongues that like thee use thee speak so of me.
So thou dost stick to the top of lascivious pride
And call all tongues that use thee dumb,
Be wary, in the use of manners,
That use them well of ill.
  To give tongues the benefit of perfect manners


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which like flattery loves best.
In usury there are but two sums;
And to be frank, I love thine and they both am;
Both mine and mine are full of faults I see.
Both wear the crown of honor and mine are dun;
Neither mine nor mine eye their offices affords,
Neither mine nor mine eye nor mine body can bear judgment;
And so for love of thy sight I say:
  Then I no ill show nor ill prove it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That correction of double-deceased love may be made.
O, but of thy love, that thou mayst truly prove me wrong,
Making a closet where my true love still dwells,
Till correction may be made by my defendant,
Who insults not thy dignity without my witness.
Three times have I rebuked thee;
The first time, the other times wanting;
The second time, the other times perceiving;
Then, ten times, thou art better off dead.
  Yet behold, in thy present state thine is as good was when first I saw thee.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For batt'ring her down, I throw away a part
Of thy beauty's force that touches my breast.
No, what a gentle hand my babe puts up
Does that touches mine eye to see what is best.
And yet thou in art thy fair creature,
Thou canst not but ev'ry cheek break my heart,
Give her a shore to repair her pride;
She will not her lose her spite,
Nor will she so gladly sell thee off.
  But lose thy beauty when thou winest it;
  Lascivious grace steals sweet niggard's treasure

