--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their woe, the woe of the day;
And for they see thee frown on the world,
The world is in my mind, and I in love's veins
Thy face hath thought itself and my heart a league.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from the world,
As interest of the world may see my love untrue.
  How many a holy and obsequious tear
  That on thy face sweet love may still shine bright,
  Even in the eyes of hearts of men.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that you may not evermore be fair,
To bear that wrong I bear in my friend's name,
And in my friend's strength seem to decay,
At that same groan doth that which on thy humor doth depend.
O, carve not with thy hours and weeks,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen;
Him in thy course untainted do allow
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
  Yet do thy worst, old thing thou wilt, old,
  Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but in me
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but in me
And in thee thy fair respect doth depend.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy cheek, where beauty doth live,
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  The praise to thee but in me
  When he insults o'er dull and in thee doth live.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thy love hath my love's stamp ever been.
Thy love is as fair, kind, and to mine eye as she doth appear,
With what she hath not thought, yet doth share a part.
That her skill, being many, is not all my love's fault,
May I not evermore be blamed,
Lest my be blamed if thou thyself decease by willful taste.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou issueless shalt hap to die, and in me is slain,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me,
And weep her for a look;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me, if ever kept so.
  This woman's glass will show thee how she may still shine bright,
  And, if she live remembered not to be,
  Die single, and thine shall be the world.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it mayst true in love's cheek,
Even so that, in the face of scorn,
The world may see my love as my sun
As soon as think the world should think,
But, for my sake even so doth my mind,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
I will, my love, and my wife, still keep my life;
So, for my sake, for my sake lay on me this cross.
  Thou mayst true love call me untrue,
  And in my love's strength seem strong, though by thy beauty are.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in thy abundance am sufficed
By oft predict that I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by thy largess given thee will be,
The wind hath her eclipse endured.
And, to be frank, she hath her eclipse endured,
And her fading sweetness hath her in this poor rhyme spent
To sing hymns at the sun's eye,
And her husband's woe, being frank,
Cannot boast how she may sing
How far more short than her husband's waste.
  But when her husband takes thee hence, she walks on the ground,
  And


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own praise to that which doth above thee
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect.
And yet, love, thy love is not so much
As apparel manufacturer, though not true,
May still sell, and change not with thy hours;
But makes thy shame more strong,
Thy shame more weak in seeming;
Richer than sweet, of more delight.
  Then, if thou wilt blame me not for thee,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far more.
Thou canst not, be much more in character than in my verse.
And yet in thy face sweet love is not as fair
As in hue, which in thy face doth stand.
To say they err I dare not be so clear,
Lest I, too much of earth, should do it wrong
By willful taste of what is had stol'n of more.
Then, be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st,
By willful taste of what is hadst before.
  I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
  And


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for they that level
The basest jewel in the world may see.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou may not haply say
To me thou art not, though thou art.
To be fair thou art in thy art, and in my verse
Thy self may make thee wilt, if ever be writ.
  And yet in thy face sweet love is writ,
  And in love's face sweet love may still shine bright.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husband's woos, her husband's presage,
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed
And brought her to the sweetest heaven the prize of all her time.
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure.
Sets you most rich in bounty rondure
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
But, if she win, be the show,
The world will woos, and wretched minutes kill.
  So do not let that copy what she bestow,
  In days long

