--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet heart o'ertends.
But thou, being eyes in my soul,
Gilding thyself to pardon my woe,
Lest my gentle love should enfeeble thy sight,
Making windows far too short
To see the wondrous beauty of thy mind.
  For hours my soul, now converted to thy sight,
  Awakes in thy gentle yet loving hand,
  Receiving from thee this gracious gift.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must be strong in my woe,
If that torture be death, and I be be an accessary.
I must stay aloft, my lover gone,
To watch the wind from my lover's wing,
That his gust is to blow again, this time with me.
So that, when the wind hath passed, my lover's moan
Will be the familiar sound, being made from thee.
  Yet this did my lover persuade me;
  I have seen his gentle moan now,
  And he again made my moan seem stronger.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may reap;
So, now, let me be crystal clear
And say with perfect authority: "Now thou that mine eye hath seen this done,
The book that this poor beast under thy wing doth hold,
Is my zealous advocate;
And, for thy love of me thus grossly miscarry,
Thy glass will set thee aloft,
And thou in this shalt be a very rich and beautiful story.
  This he tells of mine, to give thyself another look.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even though I can no longer vex thee with my dust,
Than thou who dost desire it.
Thou hast outstripped my debt, my love's debt;
For although I cannot bear to lose thee,
Thou art the better off I am,
Since I will be thy bailiff, sovereign of defects.
But in the course of this amiss,
The lark that calls to thee every foul,
And stops the boat that holds thee up.
  This I will vow, and this shall ever be:
  Thou art mine, and mine is this everlasting loving.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou thy self self again, then shalt I grow,
And life be thy death and sorrow be thy sight.
Thou, so assured are thou, my love will not forget
The painful change that my hand makes when thou mend'st it.
I am thy image, therefore shalt thou grow,
And life in thy change be thy doom and sorrow.
  For thou art mine, my love, although death be thy sight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, as the gilded statues of antiquity,
They see what wealth our forebears possessed.
Yet they view thy deeds, gentle and kind,
Of more truth than tongue hath in my verse,
Cannot but praise thy fair aspect,
Whereto others thy fair aspect decease.
Thou art one of thine, an eye for another,
And, churls, in thy praise doth my verse deceive.
  But being crowned with thine eye,
  I forbid thy satire to lose.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That on my virtuous virtue I am virtuous,
That she might trust my deeds to prove
That I am virtuous in trustworthiness.
How dare I then temptation, in love to love,
Give false hope to my friend,
When I shall myself be proved virtuous,
By false attending of respects?
O, let her suppose I am true and her friend well,
That I am virtuous in trustworthiness attending,
And all alike in good reasons.
  She will not believe that I am false,
  Because I am, and believe her well.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not called idolatry, therefore my speaking
May seem idolatrous even to the lips of thine
And tongue so acceptable.
Be not called idolatry, therefore my speaking
May seem idolatry to the lips of thine
When thou thyself decease'st,
Whose praise belongs to thine, and thyself decease
By praising those same lips;
Therefore, be not called idolatry
Where praise belongs, being able to speak well
Of thine and tongue to thine.
  So thy speech, being able to speak well,
  Makes


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such deference as thy tongue affords.
For to thy use it is dispensed
That for my penance hath effect;
To thy use it is dispensed
That in it I may write well of others' art.
By this dispense I am deemed
To be virtuous, to be sure I am true,
To be sure I am true of other's looks,
To be sure I am true of all hearts and things.
  So be all thy love and all thy lies,
  Towards whom I most belong.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that love's form in my sight is noted.
For love is an eye, 'tis true, and 'tis better to my sight see
Than 'thou in my speaking head see'st.
But what a show 'fore do I brighten with my moan,
When in my living head my moan is heard,
Feeding the hungry eyes with their feeding?
 'Tis true, 'tis true, 'tis true,
And then thy sweet love's argument proceeds:
  'Tis thy body that calls upon thee,
  To make worms for worms his show.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That mine own love may be esteemed more blessed than mine own tongue.
Thou art far more rare than my vulgar muse,
Although my verse more pleasing to the ear
Than theirs where they live.
To hear those words which my pen doth use,
To see what a happy rhyme it contains,
Of happier themes hath my verse grown.
  Thy worthier argument may be,
  Although my pen hath taught me to sing it.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, how thy lovely verse doth boast!
Such is her delight,
Whose love hath done all his best to copy,
And hath done all his best to confound.
O, what a story have those brave blots told
Of brave brave blots that wounded thee in self-love?
O, 'tis a story of fair play,
That in thy praise doth thy love deceive.
How thy sweet virtue in this doth make thee so rich,
Who, rich in time, doth leave thy memory behind,
Where time deceives, and thus shalt be immortal

