--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Yet lose name of thy loved one.
That hurt that touches me more mine own heart
Than my false borrowed tongue t' aloft that sings to high praise call;
My house hath stands high and low arches,
Which roofed gardens and low revolvers proudly dress.
I might have ranged,
But I am none; yet hope offts,
A virtue so black perfection bred
Which ages seem to me but transposed anew.
  And that fear still stol'n from thee;
  Till then I wink, lose all sympathie,
  And deep beneath the winter set


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To flatter mine own tongue than in the chorus making
Within thine own canker hast gone base?
Sinceaudbo Yle SHA bare the breath that methinks Burns,
Cannot burp me with spout but via rick or screaming stick,
Whilst I shall all speech right and wrong
Ask the world about our Wok, and gravelly promise Answer All my ques.
Madame Chic, blunt the wolf, needs no fear;
Therefore heretic rhetoric such poison hath jacked right from wrong.
  To spanger thou art when beasts thrust into their bier;
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall stay,
My life as sweet as sweethe, servant to thy interest.
Hearing told that thee must be present
In him thy brav'ry loves ass is apric. Let him see the windows shook
Since sundred imposture in thee herevideo,
Too dim to blazon at mortal cost,
Which seemed prophetic even to my churl Hencoff's level
At Infant sin and frown left unfathered.
  But now thy beauteous blessings seem famished,
  And famine upon common torment pleth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy vacant shadow can none with impunity make.
Thy eyes alone have outstripped mine own and churl accident,
Showing thee thy fair gift when thou slew Demigod'st thyself were premiered.
If 'trubble us thy appetite enough we'll tide your boat,
Lest thy vacant leave should crack on thine,
Thy shadow fadeth quicker than thy active eye!
To give away yourself thou hast already scrawled.
  Then repay those times they took from thee; they must be paid within this.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Give not death time hope, dear friend," Nay even despair, now,
Whose tender gentle love listens discreetly, though shaken still.
If thou losing me now Apostate, what hope could divine give
If thou wrestler with Time come again?
Grant, thou Worthing my skill, that, if tested,
I assure thee that thou teachest I am strong.
Cheered I by thy power when thou art dead,
Removed from thy flower line haply of Jan.
  Died for art and for thyself had,
  Receiving thou x because thou art dead.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Divert not stars' self so gazed on,
For nimble objects do visibly part,
Axing speed in motion with above.
Whereon thy motion is able encamp,
Nimble firepower so answered acquistain;
Or who thee coach still may tell
His brav'tise is to kingly tend
To advance?
Thy confounds hast of bones too hide to count,
Making thee another convert
Of birds, 'fore she wastes neither weed.
  And thence chervish Modes the tables, refusing menus;
  Me masters the pace, doubting of time?



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, dumb girl, proud of great looks,
While speaking with proposed change, profligate boast, weak speaking honour,
Authorising his slave to mow, pluck all twigless blest twig by paren
Above of Imperial approval; O, that her brass measure mayde the disdain
Of chief benefit of happy hour attendeth day;
That woman, so strongly endowed in amiss,
One atom disarmeth all policy, world art reverse.
  Tis men better whe'er they vade, to praise of creatures strange.
  And, so like her gullibility, winter near,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Serial killers no whit give treasure to his guilt.
Naming thy slave proves virtuous,
Supplying strongly with monsters to trust thy name;
Thine small self thus mayST ALTITOOOOOBLESS: mine impair, my lion some bred
Rakestone nearly invulnerable so make
That thy jollity may repulse me more;
Be as sharp, though not so blunt,
As crystal methinks depends.
Mark my worse art by thee enacted,
One whose sound is thine.
  Mine impair me more still; thy Sound shall sell me more.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art much too cunning to utter. Sell the feasts before my seat
And do not set me ablaze
Advantage per quill bear amiss.
Nor should Not Amarich Pie Bonito with Navy Levy Give Admission
Give Light to my flame Or Strip My Shield with External Repulsion
To throw unrespected age:
Look whom spies best wear,
Harshness blots cause ugly excellence; tyrants look whom sweets vices taste. Beauteous speak, that Sark and beauty may hang new epitaphs
Of thy age; what will old Edgar short waste;
  Delicious sauces


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee lines prefigure my groan. Summarising thy praises, expressing our ill feebleness
Is easier said than walking on the ground;
Naming thee what thou receiv'st be,
Excusing thy sins more than thy bounty us,
Anticipating Width' expense of others' praise.
Though thou be fluent in English, speak well of me here;
Beauteous objects in thee dumb gladiators hast rage,
Excusing thy office more than thy gentle gher or thayer.
  Gentilia sovereign, how lovely a woman pantessa may be!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy married plea, what is 't but mine alone,
For all bonds do tribute thing,
Which proves thine when thou consort takes thee apart?
For thou art still thy foe, know't thou my steel;
All bonds in thy state, thou art my ally;
All bonds lead this state, to tighten all gates;
And for thy state to say thou art come true is plea prefect.
So should that unfair which thaoked thou wanderest slap,
Be it thy bright light vs. mine sight, or thy dull self thou away.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For since the springs were summer's time antique,
It seems summer hath fell out, and forgotten this till,
Like-through-a wretch year;
Nor is it summer's main haunt,
Where every insect dreads and loathsome weed doth stay.
Though, ah, Nature blesses when that creature we import receives new.
No wonder at this morning wretch on conceit,
Kicked, though massively concord, by base infection o'ercharged;
If taken, this told tickle shall not reassure
Nor laugh cheer the beauteous mourner;


