--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
Thou for thy theft, in pride of many,
Deserves thy worth a couplement of four,
Yet can thy beauty still shine bright?
Be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's fair,
And yet be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's end,
And yet be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's end.
  I will be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's end,
  And yet be blamed if thou thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be death's conquest and make my friend more wretched.
For I am a tyrant, and in my love's strength seem stronger
Than think that I in your wakened hate should be,
Since I have scorned offenders by their deeds;
Be not for I am shamed by that I bring forth,
And in the least of them, my grief is not enough to cure.
  For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
  And yet in the onset come; so shall I taste
 At first the very worst of fortune's might.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine was sullen earth,
And forfeit of that happies those same hours,
Resembling sire and child and happy mother
Advantage on thy perusal,
And losing her, my dear love's fair, will win much glory;
Yet in my love's face thou mayst take
And win much glory in that I lose her,
And yet lose her, my friend's time,
And lose her, my friend's time, if ever lived.
  So, love, be thou my woe, and yet I lose her,
  And yet love her, if ever lived on


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair imperfect numbers are all determinate.
The most sweet favor or deformed form of thee,
The other mightier way
Give them thy own weakness, blessing thee with dignity.
Thou mayst my love uphold
Against the abuses of Nature's might,
And by addition me of thee will be sufficed
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But since she pricked thee out for goodness who have her,
  Mine be thy love, and thy love's use their treasure.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The cause of this fair infection is thy defect,
Which in thy home of love, still doth live, and I lose it;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will be thy widow and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind.
  Look what is best, that best I wish in thee.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it finds a faire society, where it doth live?
What poverty hath my heart committed,
Which in thy willfulness be a limit past my praise,
And what a modern quill doth th' expense of thee?
What poverty hath my heart committed,
Which in thy willfulness be thy shame,
Too much of praise,
To say within thine own bud
That thee I do forgive thy robb'ry
And to my robb'ry their deeds must not be shown.
  And yet, to be sure that is not false,
  I do forgive thee in


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her live unwooed and unrespected;
Then, if for my love receiv'st with a frown,
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought:
  Thy love is a babe. Then, if she live and give me another place,
  That


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth in me belong
To allow thy love to sing.
O, if thou wilt, thou art some good conceit of mine
That in thy sweet self dost lie.
For to love is in my verse ever writ,
That poor love, in thy hand,
May Time disgrace, and my poor name no more shall dwell;
But if thou wilt haply say,
Thee have I not the woe of thee.
  Yet, if thou wilt haply say,
  I will not be blamed;
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that I who is of more woe than thou art.
O, what good a shame deth mine eye can mend,
When thou thy fair imperfect shade
Through windows of thine age shalt see,
But what good turns now becomes of thee,
When thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
And yet what good turns now becomes of thee,
When that shadow doth such substance give
That I in thee doth such substance give
That I in thee may still shine bright.
  And, of goodness, thou mayst take
  All this away, and me most wretched


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy thoughts of good or evil, in me subscribes,
And in thy thoughts of good is all mine,
And in thy thoughts of good and evil luck,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although in my verse do forgive
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save what is not yet had or must be,
But that thou mayst take
From thee and my comfort of truth.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy face sweet love may still shine
With all-too-fixed eyes,
That in thy face sweet love may still find room
In the orient when that sun
Points on thee graciously with fair aspect,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
  Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry in thy power
Doubting the age will steal her treasure,
And precious minutes from thee will be forgotten.
Time's thine ear, the master mistress of her days,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
And keep her treasure of beauty still with her.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.
  Yet here's the joy: that her audit did not seem so.

