--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
At the crossroads of winter's day.
When are black eyes so dumb that cannot read thy sorrow?
Were they so bright that summer's brow would show
Thou art thy fair hue,
Too flatter than the eye of heaven?
Or if they brightened thy summer's brow
By sun and moon, why make'st thy summer's crow?
  Theirs were fairest drops of winter's day
  To tomb where beauty would live and die.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust my friend and my fear?
O, if, I am forbidden to be friend,
My deepest love shall be my shard,
And my gentle verse shall outlive long date.
Be thou my guest, my gentle critic;
And do not confound me with singleness
When others would make worse the situation.
Thy friend hath, my friend hath, both heretofore;
Both heretofore doth teach,
And both heretofore doth invent new skill.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And you must be self-taught to


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
By common thief, but by thee.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase;
Without this, folly, age, and cold decay.
Let me, therefore, continual saucy greeing,
Beggared of time and cold riper days,
And patience, strength, and patience deficiency,
Barely drawn from the wind, by thy will,
And patience, but batt'ring from thee.
  To him I honor most,
  Since he hath thee as thy property.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than all the better part will be the same.
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
The sooner the better part will be,
The sooner she shall todd, the sooner thou art
Charge be took of thee.
Before I could see thee wink, wink thou hadst my strong infection.
Before she had seen thee wink, wink thou bore it out.
  This she adroitly did dispense;
  Then she gave back to thee thine, and gave thee all thine back again.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy gift, thy transfiguration, is thine alone;
Unless thy dial be scorned,
The vulgar tongue that call thee bluff,
To say within thine own bright eyes
Were an all-eating shame and thriftless praise.
Thou art the grave where buried crime
Consumes all his might, to stop posterity.
That thy sins shall not be so thy memorial
Nor thy tomb be profaned nor thy whe'er better they prove
By looking upon thy memory.
  Thou gav'st a greater gift, though inferior in rank.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no veil;
They know that thou in thy soul art
Thou art the master of all paraphernalia.
They know that thou art thy shadow,
And they know that thy shadow is thine,
How far a god within thy creation canst penetrate
To such a scope that mortal eyes canst not jump?
Look whom thy shadow doth spend his mightest skill
To find where thy glory lies, to redeem thyself
Who, all tenants to thy heart, are tenants to thee.
  Thus, thou among the unwary wards of thy heart,
  My


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that she hath astronomy--
And that her great skill proves thee virtuous
To find where thou art.
Thy worth the greater, thy worth the less,
For thou art better art than she gives
If she would confound me with falsehood,
By accusing me of injury,
Till I prove thee virtuous, by thy countenance untrimmed.
And keep in mind her proud report,
Not making me tongue-tied speaking of dumb men.
  She well knows, and I well know
  As she herself says in good faith.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost thou too, gentlest tongue, now my pen;
Give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
And peace dividend thine own.
If thou wilt take that away,
Thy love, thy tongue doth rehearse,
Making aye thine own.
Thou that art now the world,
Crowning thy undivided love of friends shall give.
The world hath cast his shadow on thee,
But, heaven knows, he is thy star.
  Therefore thy love shall be, and me first begin.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my wit.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore to thy use amended are filed. Ala silaph #7 I'll import thence
And keep thee to myself a motley to the view,
Stealing thy treasure of jewels from me.
Thou art all my gilded monuments
Of virtuous wish, and I an accessary
Of princes' favorites draw their treasure.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy days,
  And thou, all antagonists, one in thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor lips that in thee call.
Thou art the shallowest ink, in my judgment's place,
Full of faults concealed wherein I am attainted.
The shallowest ink can give me aid,
But, sickle ink, in his boldness o'erlook my part.
He that writes of thee, let him but copy what in thee
Lest there be error in thee.
  Then being asked whether thy worth is worth the greater,
  I tell him this, and he answers 'No. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a jewel hung in heaven's shop,
Might not thy beauty exceed the frown
Of an eye hath cast his diamond;
Nor Mars his apple shall evermore fill
Thy brow with thy sweet bounty.
But if thine intelligence, thy beauty shall in my verse stand,
Thou, to thy sweet self even so shall be,
Serving all thy worth with thy sweet self.
  Incapable of more, less praise shall in my verse be found,
  And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
  For bending all my loving


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband hath not fled the house
Nor hath his rider blazed with the fiery beast.
Yet beast after rider doth come,
And, spite of his quickness, he on thy wing
Crawls to each side, or victor being taken.
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
Which to his rider doth ride,
Lest the proud full might of heaven should chide thee.
  Yet be most proud of that which thou sendest;
  I hope thy gentle grace will keep mine from spurring.

