--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving parts.
Without thy presence, my grief could not seem so,
Nor my sense so bright nor gravity so bright
To witness duty, though bright and cold.
Without thy presence, my sorrows might be clearer.
Without thy presence, my joys might be clearer.
Without this, my grief might be worse.
Without this, my joys might not seem so;
Without this, my sorrows might be worse.
  But if thy presence be thy defect, my joy declines,
  And losing thee, my sorrows grow worse.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then my friend and I must be assailed,
By enemies' jealousies masked from my sightless walks,
And my foe, masked from my sightless slaying,
Shall plead for my friend and me
To trust those 'gainst my vanishing sightless miles;
Those juries that have power to torture me
Have skill enough their skill, and patience
To find out the guilty party.
  Their verdict is 'gainst myself a fair plea,
  And their report is 'gainst my friend and me both.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, thy bonds do tie me day by day;
Thy executor, thy bonds are to thee.
Now I am free, and he hath cast his utmost sum,
Describing thee to me as a conquered star
Gilding desert, a conquered fool;
Now I am free, and he hath cast his utmost sum
To make me a tyrant.
Now may I dare to defy him,
Since, by heaven himself I am bold,
To do him shame and make him woe.
  He hath cast me as a willing patient
  Which willingly obtains thyself


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard truth will straight redeem
If thou stick to my untrue story.
If thou issueless shalt hap to wet the withering stain
Of my false confessors, thou art too dear for my glass,
For to thyself thou art shamed by that which thou withholdest;
And to thyself moreover art shamed by that which thou confoundingly doth.
If thou issueless shalt hap to change his mind,
Thou shamed by that which thou confoundingly doth deceive.
  But here's the joy: my love is new, and thy old


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
On earth, though altered in a blazon;
Till I, the lark, who calls thee to be gone,
Ask anew, if not from my spite.
For why dost thou spend Time on thy Thief
To steal thy sweet youth, forget me here,
For thou art much too fair for my love to lose.
  Since then my love hath ranged,
  Since then thou art no farther than my kiss.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, churls, are they as thy glassed eyes
Bearing the travail of a wretch's doth lie.
For where is she so fair whose beauty hides
To linger out a torment which to thy face doth lie,
Making a frown on thy face,
Whose green leaves are tanned and red,
Gilding the tanned and bareness of weeds.
  Theirs, though black so, were not thy height increase
  To mar the beauty of thy mind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Where time and outward form would show it dead.
But when in the spring,
When I saw her dressed in all she best,
I could not blame my babe
For blushing and conceit by and by toil;
But when in the summer, when she hath her trimmed,
Hang on such thorns, and shoot not at thy sightless night
Nor curse the teeming autumn with showers,
Leaving thy summer's green wide open wide,
Bearing the wanton burden of winter's day.
  But why thy summer's flower thou summer's flower fadeth,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Till my nerves were fitted to thine own.
For why should I grow weary of that which thou dost call
When thou art all the better part of me?
O, how dost thou spend thy summer's leisure
To make me tongue-tied speaking of thy praises?
Lean penury within that pen doth lie
And, speaking of thy beauties, spends his time praising;
And that tongue that better hath more expressed.
  To give him advantage of time, I will vow debate
  For thy reasons wanting nothing.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more powerful than those which thou dost call.
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To entertain the time with thoughts,
Commit to the walks, bow when thou art tired;
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  If he not renew thy string, let my love even grow.
  Then he that calls on thee should make three


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that fears not policy;
For why dost thou then, now converted,
Give thine own rose to the fire?
Thou art the greater sage, my rose being far too strong?
Beauteous clouds do blot the heaven in heaven,
And thou the greater canker grower thy flower;
For why dost thou use the bounteous largess given thee?
  If thy flower is of more worth to thee than thy flower is,
  The greater thy bounty is, the greater thy coward shame.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That our false compare mightst not be so false
As, say, mine state with thy friend's friend be.
Thou dost lie, that thou dost lie;
That thy friend's wit is as good as mine own?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And that thy sweet virtue mayst call thee to his side;
Till he sour verse with manners yield thee thy sweet tract.
  How dare thou prove me wrong,
  Since what thou dost prove me true?


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then being wooed of time, I haste me to my bed,
The dear repose for limbs with travel stopped,
But when my limbs were renewed,
Then stopped, my limbs were again brought
From the wind to sea and doth this time expire.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
Return, repose for limbs, and break for honey.
  The pain was worse than losing a son;
  So thou, thy son, shouldst receivest that pain.

