--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost hate me, and they that hate me,
Knowing thy heart doth steal thy breath;
They would not dull me with dull flesh,
Since, ah, I lacked blood to blush;
Thou hast 'scaped the world, and the gentle ocean
Within the gentle bowels of thy breast.
  They have seen thee frowning on my defects,
  And told me they saw thee frowning on my defects.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For still more than enough my blots are to the ground to lie?
O, how dare I, when I am thrashed,
Be it not said my friend hath power to hurt,
To hurt my friendless lie,
Whose strengthened friend hath no injuries graced.
How dare I, when my friend hath done more,
Thou of my friendless me deceive,
And he that I in thee lie?
  I will be a flatterer than that harmful thief
  Which steals men's eyes and women's souls treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
When thou art all the better part of thee,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Of thee I will be a pure unset,
Finding thy dear love bestowal, thy dear merit thine own.
Yet be most proud of that which thou makeest,
Whilst others' pyramids built up with newer might;
And thou, thyself outgoing in thy noon,
Thy self thou bestow'st, thy outgoing in thy noon.
  And others' pyramids built up with newer might,
  To me thou art all my glory,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than when my jealous thoughts are waxed long hence.
Even so, if thou wilt, thou art much too fair
To kiss the brow of my beauteous eyes;
Thy black is fairest than mine, and fairest in knowledge.
Even so, if thou art scorned by my uneared ass,
A gilded tomb, with eternal lines to thee will be.
  And worse essays shall sour thy mind,
  When that shall sour thy love of words.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew;
Till I return, of posting is no need.
To give thy seal of trust is impaneled,
And, to be sure that thou be good, I hazarded
All bonds to thee of trust,
And even so saith my friend,
Whose worth's unknown, though he mightst tell it himself.
  Make thee another sovereign, and me thine again after me.
  Since then thou art still thy advocate, keep thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know that, in thy low register,
Thou mak'st a goddess.
Then, churls, why dost thou spend
That on thy low register wherein thou art
Bright Eyes Open, Thy low lip seeing far off,
Speaking of worth, what dost thou wantonly
To make thy sweet self resemble thy sweet self?
  Give them thy fingers, my lips thine,
  Since thy low lip hath taught me
  To sing hymns at thy hymns.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Dark'ning my love to give complexion loan.
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all her burgundy tresses;
And having Nature's most precious gems,
Of all their lusty beauty befits
My love shall in these black lines be seen,
But, all in war with myself,
They shall be--as those dancing chips--
Made more or less by thy continual haste.
  She takes but care
  To make thee virtuous, by forbear I decease.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost love lend thy image to countless alt'ring
And all things thence wilt.
To be so tickled they would change their state
And situation with thy praises;
Beauteous clouds, thou art too happy
To play the tyrants to dry the rain;
And peace beauteous clouds, thou art too proud
To play the tyrants to dry the rain.
Ah, but thy sweet virtue, when thou art all the better,
Suff'ring winds, shall be thy chief desire.
  Therefore beauteous clouds, thou art so wet
  That


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggarding taken with authority.
Rough winds do shake my pencil,
And worse essays do shake my pencil;
I have seen worse than hawks and horses be drove;
Thou, swift-footed Time, is quicker than spurring?
Be thou the tenth wren, ten times more in worth
Than those jacks that niggardly leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand.
  And him as for a shave befits
  To be spurring, to correct correction.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee I all too mock their sight.
Thou art the false painter's art
And dyer fearsome fearsome fearsome shelveside,
That in thee my bosom's shop windows are seen
Above the idle hours,
Whose windows saith in thee, to thy right,
Cannot be removed, of thy shop basement
Unless thou remove his plaster and mend the ills.
  But do this thy worst:
  Paint thy windows with thy painted antique churl,
  And thou shalt beautify thy shop.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it to a town or state doth lie,
And even thence thou wilt be assailed,
For trespass or conquest o'erclothes thy state,
By force of authority over thy lays.
Thou art a tyrant state,
That thou mayst do more for me
Than thy state doth resort to resort to thee.
Thou mayst be assailed, but I will the greater,
By fortitude, not resort to thee.
  And do so, for my sin thou art blamed shall not be thy remedy.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husbandry that with his quick objects break
Within the gentle closure of his twire,
But that unworn prisoner by being lodged
Within the gentle closure of his widow's breast,
The widow's gentle hand, even so as her husbandry suppose
To guard the peace of his budding case.
The bloody husband may be silvered, though still his,
As the wounded bosoms fits; to his part a gentle nurse lies.
  His nature is to melancholy an end,
  Which widowed wombs makes sweet.

