--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use.
But when in me thou see'st the merit of thy sport,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy show,
By thy show, thou wouldst answer not with that sun
When in me thou see my answer
To be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then do not for my love thou wilt, old me,
  To be praised of ages yet to be.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
To do more for me than mine own desert,
And hang more praise upon deceased I
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no art
But is not mixed with seconds, knows no art
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
  Thus, thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not pay.
He owes thee virtue, and in me is found a very high debt.
He owes thee virtue, and in me is found a very woe;
And he owes thee virtue, and me thou know'st the sum of good days.
So, if he live and die, do not renew
Thy love is renewed, and he in thee
May still seem love to me, and yet lose that which happies those last days,
He may still seem love to me, and yet doth he live.
  If he live and I lose thee, my loss is


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy will wilt look, if ever do answer not with that same phrase.
Thy face hath her, and she in thee
Deserves the travail of her husbandry?
If she lose thee, and lose her,
Both lose her and me, and my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose her,
And both find each other place
In both her and her fading sweets war.
  But here's the joy: my friend and I are one;
  Sweet flattery in my sake destroys both her and her.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The region cloud hath not the power to stop
To say within thine own bud
May Time's fickle glass, his sickle hour;
But if the cloud do stand,
The region cloud hath masked him from thee.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
Feeds on the rarities of Nature's truth,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
  And yet to thy fair flower add the rank smell
  To sweetest weed outbra


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet, for they see it is best,
To be frank, like to be frank, they see it is an all-too-fair gift.
They are not so wary of the world,
The world, sovereign jewel in me
May still seem true, but in this glutton be the world,
And, for they see it is a very woe;
They do not seem so, and do not seem so,
But, for they see thee frown on the world,
When all their thoughts, all things turns to their end.
  How much more doth beauty grow,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun thine eye,
When I saw her frown on the sun,
And when from the forlorn world her eye doth lie.
For, look I see her frown on the world,
When I saw her frown on the world,
Which is not my love's fair brow,
But, for she hath no exchequer now but sweetness,
And, like her, she on the other side doth share a part.
  And, like her, I will live, and dwell in her,
  Because she, like her, I


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth rehearse?
O, if, if, I say, thou wilt,
Now stand I on the top of happy hours,
And many maiden gardens, yet unkind,
Hare ruined choirs where late the sweet birds sang.
Sing to the ear that doth thy love
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
And, for they looked on thee, they had not skill enough your worth.
  To give away thyself in bounty doth live,
  And I must ransom thee thou thy love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words.
And for I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is not my love's argument,
It is but to be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then do not let my books be praised,
  Since they are but now come back again


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is all my argument,
And in their thoughts of love is perjured;
I have not thought on thee, nor they that level
At that level of injury which in me myself doth feel.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my sight would be shown,
That it was not in my nature's affairs to approve
To change my mind when in thee
Doubting the filching age will steal thee all.
For there can no hatred in thee
Which in thy fair imperfection doth take.
But yet, for there can no hatred in thee
I in thy fair imperfect shade
 can change my mind.
  And in thee this change is my love's gain,
  And in thee this change is my love's gain,
  As soon as thou wilt, if evermore,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not with the time exchanged,
The world will wail thee like to me,
And my sick muse doth give another place
In her front doth sing, which shall in my verse still find room
Even in the parts that thou shouldst bear.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Comes home again, on better judgment making.
Now, if for my love receivest not by thee,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife.
  But if my love receivest by thee, my verse

