--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy black garments do give light.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my steeled sense a limit past my praise.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many carriages mightst thou lead away
  From thy state, to transport me farthest from thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy praise give physic to mine eye.
How can I then be praised,
Nor can thy pity give physic to mine eye?
How can I then be praised worthy
When in the least of all my graces graced be?
  How can I then be praised,
  Where my deepest sympathies are?
  How can I then be praised,
  Where my deepest sympathies are?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
By force of will, or else of trust taken.
Thou art thine when he that hath power,
And that he shall never cut from memory
My most full flame, ever renewed;
So that he may keep pace with the clock,
Stealing away the treasure of thy dear days.
To give him advantage of time is to be a gainer too;
And to give him advantage of time is to be a gainer too.
  Thus have I had him as a dream doth flatter,
  In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy frown will be fairest in my judgment's place.
Thou art more than double the height of happier men,
Beauteous, bold, and bold to trust;
Therefore to thy sensual fault I will excuse my jade,
Thy frown will be fairest in my judgment's place.
Thou art more than double the salve that the eye doth spend
To the palate where the mind doth spend;
So that her wish, when she hath it, will be most evident.
  She wishes, and I wish thou were so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and only herald
Within that wide world canst thou send
To that sweet ornament which truth doth give.
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
And the sad augurs mock their own presage;
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with these present woes foregone,
Thou, thy most precious jewel, shall in these proud verses be seen,
  Even to the barren tender of thy life.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath a part in thine own.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
How many lambs mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many gazers mightst thou lead away
  If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who decease in thy heart's workings strange.
But, ah, thou know'st true enough,
To say with me thou art true despite thy scythe;
That she hath, in thee,
A mortal fear, which shall be my all my glory.
That she hath, in thee,
A mortal fear of trust, which shall be my all defense.
  She hath, in thee, a mortal fear,
  Which shall ransom thee of my all ill deeds.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beauteous niggardness on thy part,
Who confounds me with thy dumbness,
Who confounds me with thy rude ignorance quite.
Beauteous niggardness on thy part,
Who confounds me in thy lap,
Who confounds me in thy head,
Who confounds me in thy head's way,
  Since thy great deserts me of thy gentle heart.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than tongue.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every tongue says beauty must go,
Since tongues are thievish and dumb.
So be it. I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, thy fair friend.
  So be it. I grant thou art all my art.
  And yet be it, and I grant thou wert truly sympathized.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth that hate comment.
Thou dost love my bad, my good allow,
Whilst my poor name is everywhere everywhere.
Thou dost love my fair, too,
And my great mind that doth dwell
In thee, in me as in thee.
Thou dost love my poor name, too,
And my great mind that doth dwell
In thee, in me as in thee.
  Incapable of more, replete with all,
  My poor name be buried where thou art.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou dost love my bad, that thy bad doth willfully appear.
Thou dost love my good sport, that thou art blamed of many.
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
Although that thy fair flower may well be called fairest flower.
If thou wert not married to my muse,
Then my verse shall be of more worth
Than those blots that the world mayst call thy name.
  To give away thy parts is to beweep,
  And to give away thy parts is to bewe


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, were not ravens by night stol'n thy lap,
Or churls by the eye of heaven,
As fast as thou fleetest to depart,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that are old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard them told.
  Hence, thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,


