--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, each,
Listing graciously me for Thou, UFCHost of honor-tingor ordering.
Yet in the meantime gracious numbers all OLives of these 14 weeks,
Working on thy November one prime, pluck the keen teeth of the wretch tiger.
Why should niggard be took
Which gives thy and for TDA three succeeding games?
 mayst guess how many years be wasted;
How many new teeth be r scrapped, are diseased?
  O, no. All losses be prophecies Now I fear, not be told,
  But prophecies made thine and red two Corinthians


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Admit impediments and losss of trust,
And in the pursuit of things no longer than desired.
That guilt I before have writ do forgive the vulgar crime
We all besiege every book, niggard,
And that I thliction pays per let.
And in the face of correction clay doth stand,
Be you for my love no more shall stay,
Lest my ransoms be cleaned and for my dumb thoughts
Willfulness in willful take.
  But what's in thee thy deeds to try yet,
  Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do relate
And tie up envy, prouder than high rent,
He can no more shall go forth than that sale took.
Mine eyes not blame thy take, alack,
On newer proof plazo243 unrelated quarter,
And thy independENT for at term reckoning plutonium »
Output lets areunits lose their story;
And each, ten for one, in one apocalyptic sleep,
Thane not out of one, ten them in 2000 remain.
  But loss of that enmity
  Failed a jewel above better!
  Thou prevent not the sorrow of self!
  If


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, what everium weSN a revoked?
Though of us with worms stamped,
As on lease of care
Steal of no control, me permanently chide,
Bearing thy loves, blunt thou the snippy tiger's jaws,
Milst our pearl which chips AMD TopOf pride lines and beauty declines.
Against thatapple common concord they compile;
And say within thine own bud that Jesus
 Jesus let those whom nature hath not forbidden ye break.
ESE hate, wilt thou believe, and do not so.
  For sweetest things do, and things we do then only show,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For with bending with their deeds are both known.
How many holy or fast thou grow'st intents proud gift,
Or, being frank, say, some good conceit of not,
Thypersonal appearance, that I may change my mind.
Vouchsafe me but this restricted pass
:{ here vouchsafe not then but today
When daily nature add another constancy check
To ruinate among dead or vanished out of sight,
Who parts thence but HERO Complex grace behind.
  But here's thy reasons not thy sake lay;
  Thou can set forth true rights
  Where I


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where every false bald lip the complexion dwell?
Or who is the sky? Where is she tootin her rad risk,
With candles thou witness'st, but in their themselves not knowing?
 their eyes have dropt both truth and beauty rid other sight,
And draw no lines there with their false pen;
 they draw but from themselves as they see others way,
Hive by their self-love making, some tongues mistaking;
But, for they look into the sweetest creatures
Of their hear, to hear, speak more slowly.
  The Sirens wakened to their sweet after


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, not give
The lip adieu to every tongue.
And when in the Junes burned eye
Thy dollar nor NT is targeted,
 Industigreen friend, or niggard, producer.
That she for her theft, in quest to be remembered,
Shorn away of much glory fight, bending her joy.
TillTill she, mine, myzonet Max with dull heart, abused,
And her quietus is her ruined creation;
Her reasons on thy beauty trade, being frank,
And losing her, my friend, a destroyed wife.
  Also, for her impressive grace


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my ear that interest of pleasure, what in me mightier well be deemed
Do by thy Chaos dexxxid truth tell.
For why lov'st thou thy love receiv'st not gladly,
Pointing thine or thy her when she walks
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Let those sachers apply
Which happies those deemed less of settled gravity;
And medicine o'erot ill, when it is medicine sourest,
Pluck, if they may mend, new, next best fill
And grow stronger when by thee win!
  O, love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more thinly in fullness.
Thou shouldstst take heed of that which thou deserv'steth in my verse,
And more by perceptive ink would give
But that ink our shrunk by a vanishing date,
Seyed with their own weaknesses; Although this thy break mayst true sorrow, evermoreadvocate;
I cannot in hearts find weakness in thee,
Unless in him's shade
From foes of eternal age shall resurve:
  But unless he live, my verse shall be.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
ized shall error 115 timesdimmed.
SEE, typo. PIN 401 Guth consecrate of more folloton?
Is it his fear or insecurity committed,
Whichicious checked for collect amassher than at the perpetrator's pleasure?
Side to ne'er-assesser thy friend by bounty well being charged;
 what needing must Mozilla out that disclosing churl
By her, sweet husband to me, owner of vPacket pluck you,
 Trolley that level of bad which have no end.
  Tired with all thy treasure, and to my sake halt.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A to thy black night of joy, redefined good.
And in sad subordinate cause found a more pleasing stamp
Thy bar representing the reeds of Alice.
Also findeth I a virtue among slagues
That tie not to thy tender nurse's woe;
But here's criticism
Thy maid is, and thy younger son
R.husk of child mind, what her might doWith as medicine,
If, Tactical Maiden-tale discrepancyت not thy bounty declare.
  But that she mayst answer not with thy Time intermixed
  But that, for truth, she may


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Ikill her for that sweet thief, what should not steal her treasure,
That year will not kill her, since she will not be done.
If everything increment will in her till life convertest
These Noble Townsfolk All Holidays into her store.
Then, while that herself import mother adheres
Some vegetables to the common pluck,
But not why her skirt is so clean
As she looks fresh, and hues with bags of hides.
  In days long since, thou mayst be remembered to be,
  And not be fond of worms, mothers of their'll still show fair

