--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
Beyond all repair, all repair being made.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
They curse at thy sight, and pity me
That thou in their wills mayst bear all wrong.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And thou bright young womanizer still commits adultery.
  Theirs love I grant thou art;
  Theirs love I grant thou wert young.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For there is more to sorrow than hawks or horses?
Is it enough that through the wind my limbs are struck
By the jealous inward urge of my heart to thrust,
To bear my withering still, despite the spiteful gust?
O, no. Sweet flattery! But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
Nothing but fair, sweet flattery; my rose looks fair,
And my naked molehill pride lies in my cheek.
  So all my bad is fair, and to fair it suffers.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed
By force of will; and his tenants' gardens shall be
Thy self thou bestowal, thy tenants' gardens shall be.
He that calls on thee, let him bring
From hence undetected distance, and therein surmise;
He that calls on thee shall have thy honor.
He that calls on thee will ransom me,
A thief so called from thee, and for thee shall live.
  To him that calls on thee will be thy chief need,
  Since to him I am shamed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than when thou art all the better part of me.
Thou dost wish, and wish I would change my mind.
How much more praise deserved thy behavior,
How much more praise deserved thy bad,
How much more praise deserved thy deserving of our praise.
How much more praise deserved thy sins be,
Thou of thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel.
How much more praise deserved thy sins be,
How much more praise deserved thy wrong,
 How much more praise deserved thy wrong.
  How much more praise deserved thy sins be,
  Since, thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be Thou the tenth dove, ten times more in worth
Than those jacks that nimble leap to earth leap.
Grant, thy soul doth double check
Thy access to thee are thine own,
And, thy gift from thee, is thine own.
How much more praise deserved thy poor state,
Thou of thyself thy advocate,
Speaking of thy state, how much more praise deserved thy name.
  How much more praise deserved thy state,
  Since thy state, thy monument, shall be
  To thy love and to thy monument praise.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, not for the faint of heart, but for the clear,
They know the reasons why thou art so;
They even know the reasons why thou art so;
They even know the reasons why thou art so;
And even know the reasons why thou art so.
Thou art thy sweet self, to whom thy beauty dost deceive,
Who, in losing thee, doth lose all thy comfort of heart,
  And all thy sweet virtue hath all suborned me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath skill enough wit to sing.
I grant, sweet love, you never can be old
Even to the marriage of sweet love,
Though in this your sweet love shall be seen
As she ages, though in a different shade
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
She may be as fair, but not so;
She must, though her complexion be suspect,
Be tall, strong, and well esteemed.
  She may be false in this, though I swear it not.
  She may be false in this, though I swear it not.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have heard it said that thou art thy sweet self esteeming;
And I have thought it had a counterpart in thee.
If it be error, slander doth but approve
The guilty goddess of my bad.
Thou art thy mother's art, and I must strive
To know her pride, not to approve thy name;
Thou art thy mother's art, and I must strive
To know her skill, not to approve thy name.
  And so my bad is cured of that which it was before.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than when thou art allayed; ten times more in worth
Than when thou art allayed.
Ten times thy worth ten times more
Than when thou art allayed and confounded
By seeing farther than thy own eye can see;
Then, of ten, I most admire
Thy fair imperfect beauty, whose uneared womb
Hath been fitted, to hold the strong infection.
  Hence, thou most blessed, my poet.
  Since then thou art allayed and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou my jewels are too short to be missed.
Thou art the grave where buried buried treasure doth lie,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Proving his brav'ry by stealth, thou mine eye mine eye doth deceive.
Thou art the grave where buried treasure doth lie,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Which were buried in thee for my grave.
  Their faces were but sweet graves,
  Which for thy love remembered must be
  And their gentle respects remembered only to thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy finger with theirs, and thou mine eye is bright
Which overgoes mine own to complain.
How much more praise deserved thy image should then be
If thou thy worth a mightier seem?
How much more praise deserved thy image's use
If thou thy worth a greater give.
How much more praise deserved thy image's use
If thou thy worth a greater give.
  How much more praise deserved thy image's use
  If thou thy worth a greater give.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband is wont to anger thrust
Against the maiden's wakened roof,
Which heavily enfeebled the herd, by strongly engrafted to his
Barely lodged, with strong jaws fixed,
On top of strong jaws, and strongly gored
All gazeth with rotten flesh on his head;
And, sick of his might, replete with blame,
A woman's face thus with blame shows
How far a woman's tongue can speak;
  And even thence she hath all too short a scope to complain.

