--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All gay in hue and make of an all-out war.
Now they see, and they see but what sum my sins can make
Within the wide world's eye;
Now see what full deserts mine eye hath wrought,
In naked poverty replete with offenders;
Now see what rudest disgrace I will prove,
When all subdued and unused be,
Save that mine eye hath the treasure of all my rage,
And I am a tanned tomb, where all my loving eyes
Die.
  So thou art mine, and they mine eyes behold.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
After I have been straight fair and straight adored,
Supposed as prey by all the kingdoms of the world,
Since I in secret at last prevailed upon thee,
To rob a wilde sight in my sleep
And steal thy sweet love's sweet form from me.
O, let me confess my love to thee,
And thou my sweet spite shalt make my night
Excuse me half so bad I can steal thee sun.
  Let no sorrow fill my state at night
  When thou thy sweet spite steals thy treasure from me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine see
My ruined beauty shames away from thee.
Since that unrespected thief my gentle verse affords
Which I in unbidden trust shall survive,
I will confess mine love to thee,
And that thou in thy glass saith mine,
Which I in thy heart have stol'n,
Thou art the first to know it.
Then may I dare to boast thy sweet respect;
He that doth steal thy breath hath a built-in fear,
That his vulgar love impeached hath built such an wantonness.
  Then might I boast how I love thee, spite of


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than to thee I am a worthless witness,
And much too I praise thee for that.
Thou mayst with my losing desire redeem
My lascivious humor, which will be the gain
Of loving-kind comments by ladies acquainted.
We are friends now, and comments of liker character
Will effectuate that mutual good.
Thou dost merit that comment which liketh old,
That old privilege of seeing newer do good
By praising newer as well.
  Such truths as this:--
  Thy sweet love dost merit praise born thine,
  Although poets


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Dost thou therefore not desire thy mother tongue
That thou may receiv thy dear love's bound?
O, be assured, my love hath not traveled such a distance,
Lest thou should appear married to this powerful hand.
Thou art the tenth son of mine eye,
Full sovereign of thy love's fair shape doth lie.
Shall lascivious men frame their images so?
Thou art the tenth child of my love's fair eye.
No, thou art the tenth child of mine eye!
  And counting on thy love's strength thou mayst prove them,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They are acquainted with thy surly fingers,
And they look into the far sky
When the proudest miles are behind them,
Thyself thy master's jewel.
Yet in their seeing thou see other things,
Or rather see them than receive them thine own eyes
From thy seeing-through-feeble knower.
Therefore thou shalt be unperfect in thy sight,
And in the much-preparedness thou shalt find
Thy own sweet self ransom; that is thy sweet appeal.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in proud boast,
But in truth doth she pry, humble, and seldom hits
The humble and blessed ground where she robs.
How much more praise deservedly I could burialary bore
Than thou would leave my verse for nothing to write
But that her lascivious praise would give
And, speaking of mine, praise worthy bearer cries;
How much more praise deservedly my verse did
On thy cheek I'll bear her proud title.
  How much more praise deservedly my epitaph I'll bear her name.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Is it not thy sweet odor that heavily my lips bear?
No, suborned in thy sufferance,
Thou foul art even of my words;
Save what is told of me, that I am cruel,
That I have churl humor in thy side?
No, seek my verse, where humor lies,
Much conceited to put my truth in lips.
No, seek not the humor in thy story,
Shall I prove by satire extant?
It art mine, rich in humor conceit,
That thereby lays a vein for thy name.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much pity.
If my vexed love were dull, blunt instrument,
She would engraft a lovely phrase in her brain,
While my madding on her shows favor,
By far the better part of her skill.
O, learn to write how to give fair review
To every tongue the bark of a different tongue.
Show me a copy of your book,
Or at least teach me how to read
Your epitaph to phrase shows forth most well.
  For each successive check put on my speaking head,
  Towards every mark of bad behavior extant.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whereto thine is thy love.
Thou dost love Eve's apple, whose sweet riper appears
Within thine own bud, where hairs fester.
Were it not thy womb that stol'n thine eyes eyed,
Feeding on nimble growths of the ripe hen,
Still confounded and outbraving the carcanet,
Leaving the large white pail above the ground barren,
Or perhaps it was thy mother whom I nursed.
  Or 't thy bloody cheek might prove my love,
  Since that in thee my love hath 't


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that thy love hath contracted this contracted love,
To thee this contracted love subscribes,
By assuring me that I love thee in assuring.
Thou, truly am the epitome of public worth
Which endorsements tend by their very quality to give.
That me, for example, like to thee do Churl Boy,
The proudest dumb in state image,
Who take pleasure at thy shames and ill deeds;
Who think good of me when I present myself worthy of all.
  For to be praised of all is tempting,
  That makes me vouchsafe to be vile


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From her behind to make room for her.
She looks on the world and it glories,
Before the marauders in full splendor commence.
But heaven knows better, making her woe,
Thy bosom's inviting guest faces her nightly.
In him those beauties which now seem unwooed
Come to a halt, and dead women in vassalage.
She walks without looking on thee,
Nor sighs no more when she walks.
  All eyes, with their faces fixed on thee,
  Make her tongue-tied speaking to children.

