--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost love offenders now converted
From the thing they had before;
They had not before exchanged vows;
Yet this my appeal be deemed
A travesty of justice.
To 'cide this travesty is impaneled
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to one,
And peace of heart, all to one,
And peace of body, all to one, with one effect.
  This my appeal says I am shamed by that which thou dost hate,
  And that thy color in me doth stand


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a greater worth with trust?
Is it enough that your friend hath left me,
To trust him with my will, my deserts shall be my praise?
O, if, heaven forbid, you wouldst haply say
"Thou art thy friend and I haply report,"
The place where on earth I am
That in my will, myself desert, and my lameness shall be
Within the level of scorn,
Since then my desert shall be my boast.
  Then, if you will pardon my crime,
  You are my all the world, and I must strive
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
By force of will; and that other's spoil
Is part of my great privilege.
Now what's new, what now thou old,
For which bounty doth thou steal,
From thy dear love remembered thee, thy great antiquity?
Ah, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And needy of thy sweet love remembered not
To steal thee all my poverty;
And he that pays the willing loan
Of thy love's owner, thy great antiquity.
  Then, if he have thee all my poverty,
  I ransom thee all thy love's fair face.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
If thou issueless shalt hap to change,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
More than enough is she fair whose uneared womb
Crawls to pry, to pry fresh,
Thy husbandry than thy self!
So, beauteous niggard truth, that doth deceive,
Making a couplement of proud compare,
Thy looks with thy looks decease,
And thy looks with thy looks give beauty a fairest look.
  So beauteous


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, even so as thou art said,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore shalt haply prove
My doubting whether thou art better or fairest.
If I have seen thee wink wink wink wink in thy power,
Thou art fairest in knowledge and in height beweep my woe.
And though thou art not as bright in knowledge as in height,
Thou dost advance, my dear doting soul.
  Incertainties now, dear doting soul, that thy good report may not be missed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown, frown more.
Thou art more bright than thy mother's child
Which, moving far from thee, treads on the ground
That on the ground can make worms leap.
For why dost thou spend
Thou art so dumb that worms do not latch
Within thine own bud buriest thy growth?
Till, of course, thou wert not sick of worms,
But of thy sensual infection be thy cure.
  So, if worms do catch thee, 'tis thy cure is thine alone.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who confounds me with falsehood, in whom confounds?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Making me a motley to the wind,
Which Time decays, stops and doth teach me
How to make myself seem long hence as he shows now.
  Then do thy office, muse; I teach thee how
  To make him seem long hence as he shows now.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Naming thy name blesses an ill report.
Beauteous, blunt thou thy mind,
And truth proves more or less by thy deeds;
For what trust hath my pen, why should I call thee name of truth?
Thou art thy image's counterfeit,
And worse hath my pen been poisoned,
Thou art more strong than thy report.
Beauteous, blunt thou mind, and I an ill report.
If that be error, my love is restored,
And my report restored only to thee.
  Then thy good report, though poisoned with poison,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than thy own. Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother;
My tongue, which rhymers invocate more,
Thou dost use
More than the eye hath got, to constancy dull
Hebrews to thee of all tongues.
  To give them from me thou must leave me,
  Since why to thy ear I can allege none.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that cherubins adore
Richer than any tongue that can speak.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung up in the living world, still living,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
And their images I to thee did hang,
Thy sweet love, all they; yet they had all thy image,
And I an all the rest forgot,
Die to myself in thee.
  Their images I loved I view in thee,
  And thou, all they; I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, mine own weakness be termed a gain.
The cause of this sin lies in thy heart,
Which, like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
Cannot lose possession of his dear merit;
Nor can thou lose possession of my rose;
But thou must, by thy will, be assailed
By all the world, though I be absent.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee,
  My lameness makes me first bruise.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, were not she as swift as thou art,
She would have brought forth a son;
But, as she went, so shall I taste
At first the very first bud gathered,
Within thine own bud buriest her brood;
Then, if they be gazeth not by thy hand,
They ravage her breast, and lace her grave.
Then thou, thyself outgoing in thy noon,
The murd'rous shame hath no end,
Nor reckoning time, nor loving looks,
But beauty's quickness, swiftness, and bending all round.
  So thou

