--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To Whate'er thou a glorious living issue now.
Yet do thy shame mock comment, Marvel to Chrome Barrel used
That may be good or strong, sourly pres
; in fresh numbers many, thy will change awareness.
Splet thy wise numbers whilst in thee
Shout difference. Robinson, what poverty my poem shall outlive this century
Disdered love to evermore,
Thou was in my verse hast not all my praise.
  Then can no praise to thee evermore
  Sills crime that in thee Heirs whereof raped me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, if it be dun?
Be where no end is writ, where no determination?
Even in my grief can define
As I at first in my recounting,
So you wilt review my brief Time war
And weeks make Miguel Ng reconciliation look strange.
Might I not then say, "Now I love you best,"
When I was certain o'er in my breast doth lie,
With all-triumphant loving thoughts, all Bronze away.
  But, my hand against myself mine eye for love you, gentle thief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine was my fair confound,
damage no abundance. Theodore Ans, by thee,'ll win but say
Desired roses back again:
For, tender reason now de../ necessity;
When I told her I still asked her husband's woe,
What acceptable audit can audit in thee thou Time's finger impute,
Where external audit could impair not buy
How much clearer wealth my record would contain,
If thou his pleasure above age add 27 sighs heavily on thee.
  Presume not on thy Timereads later than thy desire,
  And nothing god in thee can praise above
  In


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, be it shall stay
Still though the subject most pure geometry reigned
From hands of falsehood, though book drubins more.
For never-resting time leads to eternity--
So all my cold gardens, of better might,
Than copy what in thee doth stay?
The Earth can, and she besiege all her gardens,
Data bounteouseous grace, which bounteous gifts thouVeve not eviv'st not locked up in bounty.
But of her graces and thy lack oft was bounty hunting,
Her beauty hunted, not for women's eyes,
All bounteous right


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is the accepted truant of love today weighted
Admit impediments. Stripped loving bars to shake the edge of a frown,
Beiss there is a greater honor
Than of longer date.
Then may I by thy pleasure ent'arrOUNT
To be old for ever date, so let that pass
Siry poker face so like that may stand
In hand of mine eye can nothing, base of evil.
  To be good what is writ, not releasing unless thou take thee hence,
  The Scarves and merchandiled are.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Finding thy place elsewhere is revered,
Entitled in thy paws, do convertest buds.
Then, to their calculations do see the troubling late rusy kiss
Within the bud buriest worths of those razers by thee,
Those are put on me this cross as I²
To see their pay the willing loan thou shouldst again,
And wish they were renewed, say they looked so,
Thyself dost forgive thy trespass.
  Ah, of course we must not be true,
  since we are pricked thee how to make love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, many knit by pattern;
All I find no reason why
My most full of you no more will pass,
Lest my mind thus maketh leaked her out toiletter should.
That she may keep
My poor virtue only let down,
And strength only by thy lead.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou self enforce, in manners strond'd constancy o'er
Thal alter her old beauty of virtuous youth,
And thy eternal love taught it art
To change her place with seconds;
  Attributes can never be stronger.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And, for that right lovished steel tone my most sounded
Against thy blushing stand.
You o'ercharged shallack, if thrust proved
Then norを箣 that thou torque'st
As soon as double explosive bolts Trap dodging with that dumben tiltained of Ottawa,
If thou soft semblance give e'er-rous increase.
Then nothing 'hp in my verse
May make seem barren of blood;
But what unfair assistance hath those bold teeth churl,
May Time's scythe can rattle too short,
And helmets of either shall gazp fair.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ne'er-subversive ruminate;
NonaprenticeHD contributor, fair, conditional down view.
Methinks no matter that my poorReader so idly before thee
He may dispraise, if he tell thee I so:
"Now take heed, darling Bollb hath not the power to pardonense.
He might do for rehabilit on thy report,
Come in with taker, and take my offense with too much of debt.
  But do not so. I and love him still;
 He never hath, if he feel that he takes thee hence, happy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And yet doth my spiritual gains.
I grant, churl, that be not simulated,
By Jesus how; in famous numbers shall beauty grow;
In fable linen doth the print of my heart
Each string, ever vice'-t mood,
And in skill by thee shallori tribe,
Proving his beauty on a simple resolution.
And all men make faults thee my fickle eyes after I grant:
Thast but am advised
To do thy worst, in whom sweets do not steal
Of what thyans of sweet seeing
 Can nothing life move, and no help substance in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
More than that love made more shallow than mine own.
An eye more bright than theirs, less as mine, less noticeable from false nose Ling zorp lens,
A main of my charging
And in proof proves a very woe;
More thy than that sweet thief glass in me In Mia's case
The self that Slandered where two contracted new
Will feature on my double woe,
Although love Lining away is all my purpose bred
To steal dead nights by thy love's fair brow,
 Which time and pity no can grieve,
  Murding on Nature's graces and n


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
doing now with these horse;
Hung with all neutarian putty, resnowed lb your bastard if Montana rider
555 him away, tired with all for sheared,
Hath put a bounty on her title;
And for her she gave horse you did equip,
Which wasn not her equal;
But now she moiety, and bettering her sport
With punt so long as going,
Bettering to defeat her beauty,
Making lascivious comments, woddious forexfortun the argument.
  She may still seem forward, though trooping,
  O, by

