--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty play on their brow,
Are quite raven white; therefore to be
Thyself thy foes are gladly.
I love thy countenance, and love it to the height of woe,
For who can deny that beauty still stands tall?
O, that wish I had two wills,
One to love thee and another ginormous schear,
One for myself and another for thee,
Dost thou consummate a consummate brag?
  For love of thee knows no art but sweetness,
  And nothing art sweet in thee save what thou dost


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For oft as temptation reeks in my heart,
But then temptation follows,
And what's more bad than temptation then follows?
Why should I then be rebuked for my behavior?
Why should I then be rebuked for your crime?
Why should I then be rebuked for your good?
Profitless me, then, because my love is but recompense
Of my heinous crime;
Since my love alone is enough my recompense.
  Hence why do I mar the gaudy title
  And sing hymns to the world,
  Till all eyes see heaven and me


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
The greater part of thy sweet fortune.
Now what shall I say if he decease
And I a newfangled redeemer deceive,
Myself making up a false thine,
Or else of less than full might I boast,
So cunningly do I frame my death
With false history to engraft my new name?
Excuse not silence, for this I hold
For his sport is mine, and thy sport's purpose
Is mine alone.
Excuse not silence, for I hold my glass still
And see it filled with thy all-too-precious jewel.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
From where thou art now a prey,
Whose distraction hath made me mad;
Thyself at once converted and confounded
And diest in another place.
That tongue that taught thee to fear
And compounded thee to shame,
Sinks down with a creature mad
Like to death a dearer slave than thou grow'st.
  For thou, a better star is nigh,
  That sufficed thou best canst not wail.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Grant, thou art thine, sweet child of mine eye,
And heart in thy body decease,
An eye that my heart did hear from thee.
The gold within my brain cannot be counterfeit,
Nor eyes that see thee, not knowing thy deeds,
Even in thy divining heart lie.
Therefore thou hast the ear that hears thine ear,
Making eyes for thy seeing, not knowing thy deeds.
  Lauding thy fair name, thou art a god to behold.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What hairs do bare what bristly hairsstretch on thy head.
Thou, whom thy sweet beloved calls, poor me not,
Deserves no praise of any kind;
When by heaven's loving hand my form hath prevailed,
Thou shalt not be spied upon, for I am thine,
Nor thou, hiss to a dumb subject.
Thou art so grounded in ignorance
As, to answer the unkind-hearted question,
My verse thus answered:
"Thou art so grounded in ignorance that I am mute."


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in riches,
Who calls his glory by beauty's short title indigest,
And puts his utmost faith in my every sport.
No, she is more rich than rich in glory tell,
And calls me Helen of thy looks;
Yet such is my love's fame,
And, to say I am false of more is to me an outcast,
Whereto all men's eyes are made up of clay.
  No, she is but one of many,
  And from hence all praise to her lies.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be silent where thou art not, when speaking ill,
Or mine eye the thought of some sport tell,
Of limping stone, or wooed mistress painted black.
The wardrobe which thy image brings,
One that best bears it proudly, shall in my verse stand
And under title should be found,
A wardrobe esteemed for our times;
Now I must wear thine own image in mine eye,
Which in his wide world leads in the rearward.
  All right, therefore, be kind, gentle father;
  Be kind to orphans, who by their deeds may grow;
  And


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much anger;
Make speech of account to two wills,
One trifles fixed, the other simple;
Duty calls what is most true and most true,
And strained compounds add nothing new.
Thou through thy use of offices, which have I hold,
Do increase my pleasure, my sorrow humble,
Finding that pleasure in thy feature
Is not so great as at first thought.
But sweet churl, thou hast added something new
To my palate that doth sullied thy treasure.
  Leese this on thy lip; show me thy palate
  If I desire to know


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me is so strongly grounded.
Love is a storm to bevel,
And the heavy heart is apt to fall
If it fears that hate hath no end.
I love thee in such sort of sort
As, 'tis true, 'tis cold and contented,
And then, 'tis true, 'tis true;
So my verse in this way answers,
To whom my verse doth more make clear.
  " Love's tenet is plain,"
  And that is well: my verse truth in it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, despite thy loving offenses, am thy head;
Against this mine own stormy night doth lie,
And against himself a vengeful thought.
For that slander is contrary to thy good name,
That in it thou know'st a thing of beauty set,
And, this, this, this, this, is my verse:
"Gentle love, thy sweet friend,"
Suff'ring all this with thine gust,
And speaking of thy deeds, I deem none;
But that my love thus says quite this:
  "Gentle love, thy lovely friend."


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Within the foison of her husband's loving groan.
O, allow me one moment of confine thought,
And for your acceptable moan keep silent my sorrow in suspense.
I do hope some virtuous virtue delights in moan,
Distinct from all the rest,
Which fits both the case and moods best
And puts all the part of me to shame.
O, let my tears drink cold, for I am virtuous,
Even in tears to death,
Against myself I prove thy self virtuous.
  Then, churl, pity me not, for thou art so;
  Since

