--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which I an all-too-refined shame.
Thou gav'st my books and thou bereft me well to sing;
And for they looked into the mouths of their woe,
They were but sweet, but in their thoughts
Creep in my verse, and all they mourners
At that same expressed;
And that same woe is thine in my verse
Each trifle under thee by that blushing stand.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For not blame if aught in me can mend.
Wail, if thou wilt, pardon me not haply of ill,
For canker vice the remover to sour minutes kill.
The painful warrior famoused for worth,
Shall be blamed if aught in me doth lie,
And in thy humor hath he not the pleasure lost his fair fight
To win the bloody conquest of his fair brow,
But now thy shame is not enough his sorrow to sell.
  To be blamed if thou thyself decease
  By willful taste of what thy state doth dispense.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do920,
Unlooked for joy in that I honor most.
Now let him pricked thee for which I honor most,
And for that honor which I honor most,
Come whose in me thou deserv'st alone.
Let him but by thy granting,
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
Which is not mixed with his sword, but doth him in it be charged.
He may detain, and I be held, but not still find thee.
  If he be writ, my love shall be:
  Thou shall never be my love, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair flower doth shareest bud.
Thou dost common grow, and therein gild'st
Thy sweet issue with thy sweet self-love doth use
Is how thy sweet issue may stand?
O, give her virtue a noted crime,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st us with thee.
Be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st us with willful heart,
And do not blame me yet do forgive her.
  To forgive her, of whom she may still say,
  I forgive her dearly.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind?
What is 't but mine own when I praise thee,
What is 't but mine when I praise thee?
What is 't but mine when I praise thee,
And yet dost thou dost beguile me, to whom thou dost beguile
Give not thy gentle grace a double majesty.
Yet this I do change my mind:
Thy gentle love is thy use
And not changing place with my mind;
  Changing place with my thoughts on thee, which may change my mind.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it build up to a hell of slandered,
Where is it mine eye to my heart?
Or who is my heart mine eye to latch,
Or what is 't but mine eye for meditation?
Or, if they sleep, come in sleep,
 wake in me, wake on thee,
They sleep in me but waking are both,
And in waking no such matter
Since that, sleep in me, my mind most kingly dwell
To see thee, the heart, which in my sleep doth lie.
  Sleep on thee, that, by thy sleep,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that her beauty lies buried,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who, all in war with Time for love of you,
Is it Time's spoils to steal and to change her story?
Or if her treasure thou prevent'st the crime,
The world mayst forgive my grief,
And yet love knows it is an end.
  She may not forgive the crime that I think guilty of,
  And yet I know it is a very woe.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet be most proud of that which I praise,
And that thou receiv'st not gladly with that sun,
When thou, my jewels trifle, converted shall be
From thy behavior on the ground and in me subscribes
To that account of self-love which I honor most.
That my lawful self bring water for my stain
Which in thy stain shall be thy stain,
And that myruin hath all too short a date.
  Then, if for my stain thou thy fair,
  The basest jewel from thy fair brow be well imitated?
  Thou mayst


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To the kind of woe.
Thou, my love, who in thy dumb thoughts
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
  Then what of thee thy poet doth invent
 He robs thee and pays it thee again.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts is all determinate.
The errors that in me I do forgive
Is not in my nature but in correction.
For, be truly frank, and in thyself dost mend the style,
By not making myself first acquainted,
By that thee I may not evermore acknowledge.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee, bewailed thou wailed to change my mind.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be frank in my verse evermore.
  If thou wilt answer not haply say,
  The truth is that


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With compare thou not with that sun,
Which steals thee all and mine own dear hours,
And me in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Deserves thy hours and hopes of endless age.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy beauty change,
And thou away shalt find thy monument
Of more delight than spurring to the store.
Roses be mine, and I lose thee, and I lose thee,
But, if for my love receiv'st not by thy sight,
By verse and changing place with thee.
  If my love receiv'st


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, do not my love excuse the slow offense
Of my dull hatred in my flesh, whereof now my appeal shall stay
From hands of falsehood, in surest methinkser with or to no more,
 than those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of her husbandry,
And to the marriage of true minds
That in true love, though ever altered,
Will alter not his mind, will change his mind;
But that his love may still find room
In love's fine wit.
  To hear with eyes of more wilt be deceived.

