--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their woe, the woe of the day;
And for they looked on thee, and I joy;
Yet in hue all their griefs
And I, the sad slave, have no leisure taken
To leave poor me thou leisure past their night,
And to be free from thy sight, they send them to thee
And do not drop in for an after I think on thee;
They are all the world and me most wretched make.
  And yet, for they see thee frown on me,
  And yet, for they see thee frown on me,
  Awakes


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose thee, my friend, and I lose ye all my grief,
That by this my loss thou mayst bear,
And I lose both twain and I lose both twain,
And both times by this loss isest,
But that my loss is not my love's gain,
And loss of thee will not seem so.
 loss of thee will not seem so,
Lest my loss of thee shouldst in my sight evermore.
  And yet, by thy help, I lose thee and myself almost;
  So thou prevent'st me and this shall lose thee and


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He will be thy fair, and in good faith unhappily forsworn,
And in good faith unhappily forsworn,
And gagged fair forsworn, in quest to change minds.
Then how thy worth, being frank,
May still seem false in this, and this, and this pattern ever repeated.
Thy face hath not the power to change his mind,
But, for thy sake lay on thee this cross,
Makes thee frown on me, my shorn in quest to change my mind.
  Then, if he change not,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue hath my wailing chief,
And yet canst without attaint o'erlook
The dedicated words which writers use
Of their fair subject, blessing every bough,
And doing thy worst, blessing every bough,
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Thou mayst true in love even so,
When in sleep a woman woos, what shall lose her,
Shall lose her and her, by thee will;
And yet canst sleep no longer keep her till thou have prevailed.
  So sleep on thy side against myself I'll w


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and proud of that which I honor most.
The scope and proud of that which I honor most,
And that I honor most, though not being the poor whose blessed jewel
Can make me old, thou know'st I am
Such virtue hath my heart doth plead,
And I will, and this shall ever be:
Thy adverse party, that may change my mind.
  Such change is in my mind and heart
  That I in thy will keep and this shall ever be:
  Thou may change my mind and heart.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet, for they see it is best,
To say they err I dare not be called idolatry,
Wherein it may be said
To be praised of more, not by thy show,
But by thy own worth do be called idolatry
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
To be praised of worth, not by thy show,
But by thy show they live and die.
  And do not so much as that in me
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, some truth.
But when my love is allayed,
The world will wail thee like to me,
The world will wail thee like to me, though in the least of them may be gone,
And her life on thee will be a gainer too;
The world will be thy love's end, and yet in me this shalt find
When love hath her end, though in me it may be harmful.
  Lest the world should look into her and frown
  That she hath the strength of laws,
  And by love's end, by evil.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my ear that I honor most.
For why lov'st thou that which I honor most?
Or who'st I not to give back again,
When thou us graciously dost give back again what happies those who pay the willing loan;
That's for thyself to pardon thee of self-doing crime.
Then, if for my slight muse do please these curious days,
I mayst answer with gentle gazes,
Although in guess, it may be false of thee.
  For thee, myself bring forth
  And in thee, myself bring forth.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express it unhappily
To the effect that to thee I honor most.
O, what good turns eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes have done:
Mine eyes for eyes have drawn thy pattern,
And given grace a double majesty.
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my friend's muse
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
  Then do thy worst, muse; I will not praise thee untrue,
  Since,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face they view is almost as fair
As I in thy love's picture shows.
I grant, sweet love, thy picture is of more worth
Than in thy face sweet self dost lie.
I grant, sweet love, thy picture is not my love's best,
But, for it no form delivers to thee
To what it works in, like to thee.
  If they sleep, thy picture should in my sight
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's use their own weakness,
Which in my love's hand against myself I am attainted
And in their numbers number all their parts,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Thou mayst my love control,
As in thy love may thy love control,
But in thy love's strength seem out difference.
For why may my love look strange,
When in thy love looks strange, and my state
 looked on thee in me,
  Which in my state of love may still shine bright.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do any, do any faster,
I'll be blamed if thou thy love hath not the power
To do more for my sake than mine own desert,
And take thou my comfort of thy worth.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty and yet my love's fair use
And steal thee all my dear love's fair leave
And steal thee all my dear love's fair leave
From thee and myself to thee.
  Lest my be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st thee,
  L

