--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Unlooked for joy in thy heart.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy content
And stops the growth of that gaudy spring.
To this I witness call the fools of time,
Who, moving others to thee, do witness bear
Thy beauty and thy record.
  Theirs for thee I witness call,
  And thou, thy for me, to me they wert thou.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my wounded bosoms or cures my grief.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy praise redeem
Where it hath my friend's esteem to blame.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss.
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
  Ah, but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
  And they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
He that calls upon thee, let him take
And leases thy dear merit;
He that calls upon thee to ransom me, let him steal
All thy beauty and all thy parts;
And thou, to thy sweet self too cruel,
shall be thy chief constancy.
He that calls upon thee, let him be blunt
And to his say more shall be proved.
  His broad satire shall be his feature,
  And his thinly scythe shall be thy store.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy frown will be fairer lodged than thy heart;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
And even thence thou wert not to be assailed,
By any thief, though thou art assailed of time.
  But here's the joy: my love is thine,
  And thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy welcome.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Within thine own bud buriest thy welcome,
Since, say, thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Within thine own bud buriest thy waiting.
For why should I not praise thee, say thou art bright
And therefore to thy fair flower?
  Thy bright eyesight, which yet thy pure heart
  Have not figured out yet, have figured it out.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath in the brow a majesty.
What hast thou then more than thy fair brow?
Thou art more bright than thy mother's child,
And farther off from home in knowledge of things fairest.
Look what thy mother's eyes have done,
Which, all in thy bending, are bright
But dimmed by thy desire.
For thy mother's skill, thy son's delight,
Thou best of all men's eyes.
  And thy mother's gentle skill, thy son's delight
  To make her tongue-tied speaking.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who decease not beauty by decease,
Making no summer of another's green,
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new.
But thou, contracted to thine own bright eyes,
Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,
Making no summer of another's green,
Showing thy age when thou first wrought.
  And keep thy summer sweet, which thou bestow'st
  To those whom thou bestow'st it.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou that my bad, thy good report will be praised?
Thou art thy chief good, and therefore to be praised;
My bad, my good report will be worse.
Thou art thy chief bad, and therefore to be assailed
By those same spies that my good report will be;
And, for their part, I'll bear all defense
Of thy report, even to thy report's end.
  Receiving a false esteem, I'll bear all defense.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more eloquent than tongue.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that dear April.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives this, and this gives


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth first begin.
Thou art the mother of my child,
And my great love is merchandized everywhere.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and my great love is merchandized all.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard it told.
  Then thou hast a father; let thy son say so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a jewel, is not so fair
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air;
For why dost thou spend
On thy beauty's legacy, to steal thy dear merit?
O, but thy fair flower, which thy sweet virtue doth grow,
Cannot be so blunt, for it must be borne alone.
Thou sour of thyself so sour
That sour compare of thy state,
Which, like a canker in the fragrant rose,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
  And for thy sweet virtue doth such virtue boast,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
Thou dost beguile me, too;
For why dost thou then desire my love?
O, know, sweet love, I will not hap to change my mind.
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Or gentle love, if my heart were quicker to break
Than thou wouldst take that away.
If thou wert not married to my pleasure,
Thou art as tyrannous, knowing thy heart.
  To be so tickled they would change their state,
 

