--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost love my fair imperfection,
Which, like a jewel, hath not the strength
To hold a frown, though mounted on the ground;
Yet in black ink my frown
Hath been painted a fairest shade.
The painful warrior famoused for thy worth,
After thy fair imperfection fled from thee,
But now my frown is gone,
And my black ink hath allayed a fool.
  Since, against thy will, thou blackest beauteous me
  And now thy praise must be fairest.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those friends that you hold more esteem
Than you own, dear friend, mine own desert?
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblivion, poor but free,
Which freezings shall be thy chief desire,
And thou mine own desert shall be thy chief desire,
Since freezings do not kill me nor take away.
  I am to be tombed with thee,
  Which freezings shall be thy chief desire,
  And thou mine shall be the tomb.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
From thy control.
Thou canst not, now forfeit me,
Unless thou take that away,
Which shall be thy chief desire,
Being thy chief desire never shaken.
Till I prove thee virtuous, and thou my spoil
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
  Till then, not show what wealth I have
  By paying too much, lest others' false adulterate eyes
  Look into my deeds and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath put a spirit of youth in my cheek
That overgoes my blunt object, and my blunt invention
Underneath thy bars are hanged more.
Thou art more strong than that tyrannous hangman that methinks is,
Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;
So thy great gift, thy abundance strong, will make thy heart more strong
Than thy bars have grown with thy decay.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy age,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and only herald
Within that sweet glass canst thou view.
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow,
Thy worth the greater, thy beauty far greater.
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow.
  How far a modern quill doth come too short,
  To say within thine own bright eyes
  That shine more bright in thy living hue


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies, and that it hath no name.
What hast thou then more than thy image had
Bound for the prize of all hearts?
Nothing, sweet boy; but yet, by thy sweet invention,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive.
Self thou gav'st, thy image thine,
Feeding the hungry hungry hungry beast with sweet virtue,
Or else of thy image thine,
Making the Earth devour her own sweet brood?
  O, none but unthrifts, dear heart, that thy sweet self dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath her own sweet skill,
Making tongue-tied comments on thy sport.
Thy love, when I perceive that thou art
The master mistress of my passion,
My love alters not with my change,
But alters not with my change.
If my love were but the spring and not the tomb
Of sweet beauty dyed,
By new unfolding his imprisoned pride,
The tomb should open wide,
Since, out alack, thou art all my.
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee frown on my frown?
Thou art more rude than tongue-tied gentlest,
And therefore to my palate doth rehearse,
Making sauces more suited to my palate.
Thou art more temperate and more temperate
Than those blots that niggardly niggardly niggardly niggardly comment.
To be so tickled they would change their subject
And situation with manners;
They would be fools, for they would not care
Which tongue that more hath more expressed.
  Then, if they have learned the rud


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in translating should cost thee my life;
And speaking of that which thou dost use
Finds thy foe, my friend, my foe not so.
Th' expense of spirit in this, that thou mayst call it quill,
Shifts thy weight to contend;
Therefore thy argument declines, and I lose sight of thee.
If this be error, my friend hath no pen,
Nor tongue to correct his wit.
  Then thou wert not dumb, nor deaf, nor gilded honor shamefully in thy sight.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth that hate comment.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my body thus doth believe,
As those blots that do with thee lie.
The false esteeming of thy name,
Which alters not beauty, but makes my heart true,
  And thus my verse proceeds.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which shall never lose possession of thy dear heart;
The bonds that tie thee to me,
Of more than thy worth can tell,
Than niggard truth of mine eye hath shown.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, by being born fair,
Fairing the foul with art and for thy sake,
Making the Earth devour her own sweet brood;
  And, for thy sweet virtue, sweet beauty's use
  To make worms thine heir.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
I'll run, and th' offender faint
While he in my love doth flatter,
Compare thy moan to his own, and thou wert truly slain.
Then thou wert truly slain,
And shalt by fortune once more be
Returned of my love, thy murd'rous shame hath all too short a date.
  And him as for a widow doth live,
  Which husbandry still hath all too short a date.

