--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All round the clock, making time one long day sad
And looking on sorrow with mournful eyes.
But thou thy fair imperfect beauty hast brought this sorrow
To a zealous state in which to mend,
To make sun goddesses wail and frown,
Lose all control over thy deeds,
Save where thou art not, truly divine.
  Ah, but thou art, truly divine,
  And for this I commend thee so.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To see my sorrow at first perceived?
Nor can 't long be enough to comfort me when I am truly gone.
Nor can 't take away my fear when my breast is done crying.
Nor can 't take away my joy when I am done speaking;
Nor can 't take away my joy when my breast is done speaking.
Nor can 't take away my love when my breast is done speaking;
Nor can 't take away my sorrow when my breast is done speaking.
  Or, if you will excuse my speaking,
  Give me good report, true story tell.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The pleasure of thy love's largess.
Now I swear that I am the queen of thee,
And thou for thy sake do mine eye honor require,
And mine eye in wealth hath done this great honor.
Then, after thy decease and from my sight,
Forgot upon thy promise to thee,
Or else remembered me for thee,
So that thou mayst behold my beauty still.
  Then return again, and mine eye mayst see
  Where thou art, that mine eye mayst see what thy good deeds do.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose merit shall win the day, and shall lose the taker's delight,
With thy fair gift in suspect.
Thou art worthy of all thy gems,
And all thy gems are due, yet me most dear esteem
All niggard falsehoods, whether true or false;
And to this I attain thine own key,
Which shall in truth win all thy praises.
Thou art the fair-skinned beauty that tenderly doth give,
Who by thy gift shall all thy praise be.
  So all my loving thoughts on thee expire,
  Unless this wise execut


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the mother of this crime,
And therefore canst not be blamed of her skill.
Till, thou art true, thy true love is suspect,
And even thence thou wilt be blamed if thou usest false witness,
Bringing in the defendant's cross.
Such is thy shame, that thou darest cross the line
Where thou art not guilty but hath been proved.
  Since what had first been proved, thou shalt be proved.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But they do not know thy treasure,
And they that hear thy moan
Under thy tongue speak of sweet nought.
How many streams in thy beauty doth thy verse
Feeds the hungry ocean,
Which by their seeing hath no knowledge
To what sweet bounteous bounty it doth belong.
How many forests thy beauty doth doth nimble cover,
Which thou thy sweet self will bear when thou grow'st.
  So thou art the prey of the hungry eye,
  And their appetites are sick of thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Though I do not think she hath the cunning
To steal lives from poor me.
O, what a story tell us of one dear love!
Our love, like to honey in caris,
Hath traveled to some remote mountain, where thou dost stay,
Where beauty's veil doth cover the night.
Then, in the distance, where beauty's veil doth cover the day,
I see the mountain tops glist with heavenly beauty;
But now, perceiving beauty in the distance,
I see the topography of an age lie.
  Then, no longer fearing her because


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Against thy scythe and thy knife my life hath
Advantage;
Against thy beard and thy jewels mine eyes hath
Advantage;
Against thy jewels my heart hath
Advantage;
Against thy hair and thy jewels mine eyes have
Advantage;
Against thy jewels my heart hath
The pentanta of my love gone.
O, stop and consider what thy defect
Exceeds mine, that hath so great an abundance
To store up thy treasure, that wastes not to give back again.
  Let me not say that mine eyes are false,
  That thy unused treasure lies where thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such as thou hast borrowed from elsewhere.
Be as thy mother nature is, gentlewoman,
Be as thy father nature is, cruel,
Be as thy father nature is, cruel to inferior children.
Be as thy father nature is, gentle,
Be kind, kind-hearted, to thy husbandry's expense;
Be as thy father nature is, cruel, to inferior children.
Be as thy mother nature is, cruel, to inferior men.
  To be so, to be so false as to be true are.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which for my sake subscribes to thine own.
O, that is my verse, not mine own.
'Tis not my habit to use your name,
Unless it be false of my will,
Which I confess in full esteem.
I love to hear thee moan,
And I believe thou art so dumb that I think thou art true.
'Tis true that in me thou know'st my worst,
Which is better than losing my life by accident.
  But if it be false of my will,
  I swear it to thee, and thou gav'st it


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that mine own true love is more perfect than mine own.
Thou dost love women's eyes and breasts,
Which should thy inward self esteem more than mine outward self esteem,
By thy external beauty being better known
Than by thy outward self's seeing.
O, know, my love is better known than mine own breast,
When thy outward self knows it hath but slight part.
Mine own breast is better known than mine own chest,
Though thy inward self's seeing it hath thy inward self's view.
  Thus thy outward self doth thy inward self deceive,
  Finding


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From her husbandry the twain;
And having, like a swift-footed lion,
A prey on her instinct,
Attacks with all her might;
And losing sight of her,
Plods on, full of fear,
So that womanly might be husbandry's friend
And mother nature's loving child.
But when her husbandry is won,
She chides him for losing sight of her,
And gluttoning on all kinds of spoils.
  For to eat such a thing as that leads her to
  Kill him fast, she strains so hard.

