--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lips are full of wrinkles, and they mock my heart
When I am straight, and they boast of thy beauty.
Yet thou in this, in my verse,
Thy lips still show thy beauty,
And in their mouths I can hear thy praises.
I love thee in all thy parts,
And yet they mock my deeds,
And I in their gross thoughts show thee how
Thy lips can speak well of thine.
  But that is not my feature,
  Lascivious grace being so strongly built.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When in thy sweet gentle lap doth my heart thine?
O, let me be contented when in thy breast
My heart with my consent commits adultery.
Let me be contented when in thy breast
My life-sustaining breast doth give nourishment;
Then, if thou wilt be contented, so be I;
But be contented when in thy breast
My life-sustaining breast doth give nourishment.
  Or else thou wilt be contented when in thy breast
  My life-sustaining breast doth give nourishment.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
And look into the prize bett'ring
Myself to some unknown prize.
Now behold, mine eyes are famished for this,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too;
Now behold, mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for this too,
And mine own eyes are famished for


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to thee my love is a burden to bear.
Thou dost wish my beloved name were renewed,
And for that wish doth my beloved steal.
I am not barren of love, either in thee,
Or in all thy largess doth live.
Therefore, if thou wouldst give me another wish,
Thou dost wish my beloved name should again appear.
  This wish, which I have,
  Receiving from thee my love's dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the grave whereon the cross of all ages
May burn, and thou shalt stand,
When the riper's knife doth cut, and the maiden's knife doth cut.
The maiden's knife doth cut thee, the warrior's knife,
And thou shalt be the first to knife her,
Whilst, being cut, thou shalt be the last.
  She that doth cut thee shall cut thee more,
  Than, being cut, thou art the last.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in thine own sweet eyes thine own sweet buds doth appear.
Thee have seen the eye of thine eye,
And in their grossed-out pranks have thine eyes seen
Thy own sweet self as thy sweet self doth appear.
They have seen the eye of thy beauty,
And in their grossed-out pranks have thine eyes seen.
They have seen the eye of thy beauty,
And in their grossed-out pranks have thine eyes seen.
  But they have not seen thy sweet self,
  For thou art so sweet


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might well believe her tongue when I speak.
But love, having base grown, is now more evident,
Than when I first give her my all,
When I have her all, of greater worth than my tongue,
Or at least she thinks my worth the greater.
So love, when she thinks I am all,
Is not so much my issue as mine is,
Nor can I blame her for that.
  But she thinks I am, and she loves me as she thinks she loves you.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give me aid but by thy granting,
And I an accessary privilege to thee.
Thou art but the sum of all mine;
And, if I steal thy treasure, thou my public praise
Is but the sum of all my deeds.
Thou art but the sum of all my loves,
And, to be sure I am, I am but one,
And, assured of all, confine my love to thee.
  Then, by all alone, I may be well;
  But that by thy love I am confined,
  Not confined to thy love's fair use.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thy rude hand doth use.
Be thou the tenth gentlest of thy kind,
Be thou the tenth addition to my praise,
And ten times my equal in worth.
Be thou the tenth addition to my praise,
Ten times my equal in worth.
Ten times my equal in worth have I been twain,
Thine ten times have I been twain have I been absent,
And ten times have I been absent from thee.
  Thus have I been absent from thee,
  From thy sweet love to mine own.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me is the most heinous crime.
For why should I not call thee virtuous,
That thou art more virtuous than my pupil's tongue?
Thou art more virtuous than a beggar's son
Which in thy heart doth sing praises of thy worth?
O, what a mansion would be without thee,
Who, in thy deeds, would willingly give thy love
And live in thy books.
  But since thou art so virtuous, why should I not praise thee more,
  Finding thy sweet virtue so evident.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that of others' envy thou hast,
Which, by envy, leads to worse things.
O, but with mine own compare thou art more blessed
Than those who, by mutual envy,
Find each other's envy more blessed.
O, but with mine own compare thou art more blessed
Than those who, by mutual consent,
Find each other mutually desired fruit.
  For when they have found each other,
  More blessed be thy state, being full of thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then can every fair maiden greet with fair shake,
Shall neigh no dull gust when she neighs,
And lays waste all the beauty of her field.
O, that tongue that calls fair a whore
Is not so strong a controlling mind,
Nor can his lively argument hold his breath,
Nor can his bristly beard hold his breath when he neighs.
Nor can his tall hand hold his pace when he neighs.
Nor can his gentle foot hold his pace when he neighs.
Nor can his broad horse hold his pace when he neighs.
  So strong is his hatred

