--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet heart o'ertends.
But thou, being eyes in my soul,
Gilding thyself to pardon my woe,
Lest my gentle love should chide thee,
Whose windows do not shade thy golden show
Which doth thy gentle beauty show.
  For thee in such a plight
  As, 'twixt thy windows and me,
  Shallst thou blot my blood with proud titles.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be with my sorrow when I am dead,
Or even my sweet beloved's grave to weep for?
O, let my love weep for me only when my body is
Sunken and in the way,
For my loving thoughts and gentle cries are enough
To drown my sorrow when I am dead.
O, that is not enough to drown me
When my body is filled with you,
Or even of you when I am dead;
Let those tears be your peace and comfort
When my body with you is nought.
  If your peace be lacking, be of less help to me


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
That is by my will enforced.
Now I must swear, 'tis true, I love him dearly;
And that is my love, for I will bear it
When other's bear it more affigual.
Then pardon my woe, what I most desire,
But that I may sometime crave,
Making thee my vassal;
Thou dost love my woe, my friend,
Who loves me when other doth take it.
  For him that bears this debt commits
  To bear witness what a bad show I have been.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I that vex thee in neglecting thy grace.
For thee, being my guest, I'll entertain
Thyself in my thoughts and deeds,
While others' thoughts and deeds will do thee shame,
Which I like least am esteemed among men.
Therefore thou who art so disposed to disgrace me,
Shall be sainted in my thoughts and deeds,
And in my willfulness and good looks do stain,
  And in mine own willfulness and good looks do disgrace.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou art true, my love being proved,
Thou dost lie, my love being proved false,
And that my love hath in thee determined;
That, by thy presence determinate,
Thy love is restored, not lost, and I straight gain;
And, for thy love being proved false,
Thou dost prove it, and me straight gain.
  For thee art what I call truth,
  Or rather to the truth be called truth than lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou through their seeing impair their souls.
Thou art the eye which perceivest this,
Which, out of thy seeing, perceivest thyself to be.
Thou dost the wakened eye, which perceivest thyself to be,
Feed'st thy hungry eyes with sweet substance,
And by feeding on them thou find'st a feeding.
  If these eyes, in thy goodness,
  Were made from thee thyself thy foe,
  Kill them all and make another waken.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And in me a dearest respect.
For she that doth in me boast,
Being of such a state as truth doth inhabit,
Doth advantage by beauty surmount,
And proves me false of heart,
By telling the same story over and over again.
I love her because she lives and doth live
And loves in me a godly love;
So she that doth live and doth defy
To believe what she tells betokens.
  To her I may be counted as her seal,
  Though she live and doth live in me a lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And if thou wilt, thou shalt be a widow.
Then thy love's spite, which mine own eyes see,
Against thy own cheek they find;
Against thy cheek they find it;
Against thy cheek they find it;
Against thy cheek they find it, though thyself bereft.
So thou, being widowed,
Vaunt in all thy might, and in all thy elements die;
And for a widow's death thou must be contented,
Although my verse be barren of many a hymn.
  Be not so gross, O my poet;
  Kill not in


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much my content;
For truth knows what love looks like, and what sorrow looks like;
So thou what thy glass tells thee o'erlooks true.
Make answer, sweet love; in my verse thou must
Be willing to change subject to change.
O, change subject, thou good doctor!
If thou wilt change subject to change,
My love will wane, and my verse will bear it.
  For thee change subject is so easy.
  So thou shalt be cured of my penance.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my heart that loves what it finds.
Thus 'tis my love that every tongue says is my sport.
I love thee in spirit and in deeds,
Though they in thee do not quite approve;
I grant my love well and hate less,
But that in thee I have some respect of respect.
Be thou my guest in the embassy of another tongue
Who in thee and me neither can speak well nor leave out.
  This acquaintance I have with my great-aunt's grave,
  Which is buried in thy name.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And in it my deeds are measured;
Thou through thy deeds mine own love is measured,
And in me thou belong'st to more pride.
Thou dost love my trespass and me thou approve,
Finding in me a holy husbandry,
Who for thyself art so virtuous that
He doth use thy life for pleasure.
If that be untrue, why dost thou believe it?
Thou in thy deeds dost lie,
That my love may stain well in that I prove.
  For if my love be false, why dost thou believe it?
  I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now comes the blow, now comes the catch,
And holds her captive for ransom.
O, how my lovely mistress doth foist
On this thralled babe the leisure of her youth,
Making him a widow beauteous husband.
Now come, take heed, dear heart, of this added offense;
Make no wonder at length at first,
When she hath so strongly been fitted,
Making him a widow beauteous.
  But now come, when I have gazed on thee,
  And seen her all hush up to the end,
  Then give her

