--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty in their neglect,
Hath put on white the taint of their pity.
Thence comes the audit of thy deeds,
And I a dearer birth than before,
And they with their seeing take thee away,
For they see thy true self so grossly,
Which, seeing thy beauty in their disdain,
Of course they esteem not thy true self,
Though they see thy beauty in their seeing.
  For thy fair appearance in their grossness they esteem,
  And I, seeing thy fair complexion in their delight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To say I am wretched in heart and eye
Is enough to send my soul to bed?
No, let me be contented when my heart hath stopped,
And then my eye the comfort of his sight,
For thence my body is nursed
To wakefulness in his socket, where it will rest.
Then, if he sleep, my heart, being full of thee,
Sinks down a very bad night,
And my eye, which by sleep hath full well seen,
Sinks down a very bad night, and my spirit dies.
  For thee this my sin affords,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
In trust of thy love.
Now, be of good cheer, that I have won this title,
And that thou in trust of me am heir,
Now forfeit thyself to me,
And I will ransom thee thyself for me,
And do all my worst to hurt thee.
Then be of good cheer, that I have won this title
And that thou in trust of me am heir.
  This title now is mine, and thou dost give
  To me thyself thyself thyself thyself.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet thou dost excuse my neglect,
Making me one more thing despised
Than my deceased love's beauteous grave.
O, what a mansion have those antique ladies
That now live in thee, now live in me,
And in them thou dost live, though they be dead.
O, what a mansion have those antique ladies left
That now live in thee, now live in me,
And in them thou dost live, though they be dead.
  And in them thou dost live, though they be dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the prey of many a jealous eye;
Thou art thy foe's treasure, and he best of friends
To lease that treasure is thine.
Therefore to give him possession of thy sight,
Richer than thy sweet self is,
Shall others steal thy treasure, or thy sweet self be;
Thou art much more blessed than this thy thief,
And much more deserving of thy love.
  Thus do I vassal thy love, and take thy treasure
  Where thou art not, thy sweet self, being taken.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, in their seeing, is thine.
So thou, sweet love concerning whom we speak,
Hath a subject that we here present to entertain.
"Ay, sweet love, what a mansion have those lovely eyes
Of yours to spend,
Which beauty hath in some measure deceived,
Since thy sweet love doth use those lovely eyes
To gaze upon thy beauty's form and show it how to show it wert.
  Yet methinks thy sweet love is but sweet,
  And in thy sweet beauty dost deceive,
  Receiving from thee what thou wert begu


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore be termed a false god.
For although she lived in heaven,
I have seen her crowned from the farthest sky,
And she crowned from the farthest earth.
So I believe her though I know nothing of her,
That she lives in unions with men of good will,
And that she hath kingship over men of ill will.
  She hath spies, and spies are as spies of good will;
  She may well be false of heart,
  But I know her well enough to know her well.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I will not slander thy beauty,
Though thou art sweet and kind,
And I will slander thy virtue,
When in good faith I find thy name.
O, be not so kind as to my friend's widow
As thou art wont to sell thyself at a profit;
That's what my friend's widow calls me,
Although thou art my friend's wife.
  If my friend's widow think I am so kind,
  Their thought would be a double offense.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such poor judgment as thou hast.
For how can I speak to the world that thou dost call,
When thou art so cruel as to my taste,
And I in thy behavior am guilty of so great
That I in thy behavior am guilty of so great
That I must be a worthless actor in thine.
If I could say more to the world well
Than this poor affliction affords,
Thou dost truly be good, and I merit it
By thy gentle love and gentle manners.
  For to speak of me inferior than thou art,
  Shall in my verse


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me they esteem is greatest.
For that which is most beloved in me is greatest,
And that is most despised is that which is most despised.
So love is love that in me is most despised,
And that in me is most despised is my tongue,
Which for my sake is most hated.
  And this I am in a sort of jade,
  That leaves me wide open wide for your kiss.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That is, mine own love, which I hold to be true.
For thou, my love, whose love is better than mine own,
Is a better actor on the stage,
Than mine own false actor on the stage decease.
The stage is my inward love,
Which, contracted to the actor's part,
Is better than mine own show,
Which, contracted to the part, is worse than mine show.
  This is my verse, and my praise,
  Whereas mine own words do contain more than mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
"Now thy hand is allayed," I say,
"and thou alone art all the better part of me."
"Ay, yet thy beauty still doth thy show,"
I add, "and thou alone am my all the better part of me.
Thou alone art the better part of me to be married,
And yet yet in me this all too true doth lie.
For thou alone art all my all the better part of me.
  So then I can blame myself for thee,
  If thou helpst me do wrong, thou helpst me do good.

