--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving parts.
Without thy black, of all whiteness I welcome,
All tongues, of thine own being quite gone,
Of self-love quite gone, my black garments quite black,
And of self-worship quite gone, my silver complexion quite gone,
All blame o'er the world, for thy well I commend
Thou art now the world's pretern,
And even my sun is now peeking in thy shade.
  Then, pitying thy sight, I engraft thee
  And keep thee as an engrafted wretch to thine own



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
Whilst others' praises are nothing novel, nothing strange.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee
Than niggard truth will willingly impart,
Which just deserts me in such sort of sort
That I will be forgot, if others' praise shall hap to say
"Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend."
And I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
Incited to that which I bring forth new.
  And yet to this I may hope come false conclus,
  That I will never be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
He that lends thee virtue doth but steal thyself;
If that thee answer "No," I will ransom him of my pay,
The humble thief will be thy chief thief,
And swift-footed Time will be thy foe.
Thy worth's unknown, my foe unknown,
Or thy worth's unknown, my good describing,
Or thy nature, to thee he confounds.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou art much too fair, and must strive
To make sweet some vial;
Thou art far too fair for our palate urge,
Which even thence I'll pluck, thou know'st.
Another time thy wish mightst come true,
Thy unused gift is riches and I gift thee;
This time thou art thine and I both give.
Thou that art now the world and I store;
Then others mightst my delight, but thine not so.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee, I'll put in store.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the grave and the tomb
Of Desiring Persons, all tenants to the sightless part;
For what's new, what now to thee,
Thou art till this coming to pass,
Called to that fair by thee are sworn,
The farthest brain in the world.
If thy true soul check this, thou art assured of all things,
And the tomb and thee will be none other.
  Then thou art much better kept secret than wide open hell,
  Being buried where thou art not.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when they see that thy sight is
Above that mine eye, their thoughts are withering,
Till they see that thy great light
Crawls to maturity on thy face
And Blocks Time's second self away.
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
If being assailed, what made thee so bold
To lead the charge westward?
  Praising thy art, I say,
  Because thou know'st truth proves thievish.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Making of truths more or less,
Than suspecting my wit, to uttering falsehood.
How much more praise deserved be if I could give
That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone.
How much farther a gilded tomb
Advantage on thee mightst thou be?
How far a medieval gilded tomb
Advantage on thee mightst thou take?
  She lived but in the eyes of men,
  Which have no eyes to wonder,
  And therefore thou hast her tongue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I find that thy sacred majesty extends far.
Grant, if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
But that my love is not so great. The false esteem
On thy sacred subjects is disgraced
That thou among the wastes of time,
When thou art all the better part of me.
Beauteous foes to thy sacred majesty
And do thee virtuous spite me,
Whilst thou art all my glory and me.
  To thee I send this written embassage
  To witness duty, to show thee how thy embassage compares
  To thy sins committed when thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
O, let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Hiding their skill and seeming lack,
Applying their lack to succeeding age
By force of habit, not speaking with thine own tongue.
Speak of the lameness of days,
When I was wont to break a twofold truth:
"Till I prove thee virtuous,"
And, praised thereof, I'll prove thee
The travail of a worthier pen."
  To this I add, "Thou single wilt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thy love is thine, right there.
In others' works thou dost mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
Thou art more poet than tongue, being able to sing
While I elsewhere speak;
And my verse, being excellent,
Seems tongue to thee as well;
And my verse, being poor, with thy correction not much appreciated.
Thou art a true poet's child,
And indeed he should have been our child;
But no sooner have weaning grown to this,
Thy vulgar poesy defeated
And thy rude


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy changing course will bestow it;
For what hast thou hitherto unrespected,
Against thy moving parts now deemed,
Now deemed allayed, give thyself parole?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou now confound us?
Because thou no farther than thy moving parts
Of thy newer invention are concerned,
And why dost thou spend thee all thy force?
  Thy newer satire, thy newer aye well.
  To give thee newer props thy slumbers do hang.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For if that bear, with thee,
As with those charter ships which carry me farthest off,
Wrecking all the wind, that blow me to pieces,
I'll run, jump all the trees, and hang more waste
Than nimble seals up the stern to his side.
With thy swiftness I'll run, and leap all the way
But shoot not at the wood nor her husbandry,
Pointing to the wood with thy extremity.
  Shepherd thy lamb; why not her well thou grow'st?
  Sheep thy lamb thy lamb's show;

