--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use.
Then, be praised of worth, if not be praised,
The name of worth is being praised;
The region that I honor most
Is regioned with proud pomp,
But that I in thy honor may still shine bright.
So, be thou, my love, and I will be good,
And in thy glory live, I am shamed by that which I bring forth;
  And in thee, my love's name, in thee
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that you yourself may not evermore be took
Than when my friend's museifies her,
Cannot dispraise to that which I honor most.
And yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of injury.
To say that I do forgive thy robb'ry,
Although I do forgive thee for my crime.
Thou may pardon me not be blamed,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou repent when my am shamed by thy name!
  But yet, be blamed if thou thyself dece


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth,
Unless he take that word from thee, and that word
He can afford
No praise to thee but in my own sweet self-doing deeds to prove.
He can afford
No praise to thee but in my deeds must be,
And yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of injury.
But, for what sin hath my heart committed,
A sin by thy nature hath not the power to pardon of injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom nature hath not the power,
  Kill him with spites,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy love's fair brow doth lie.
That love is still the same, and still doth share
Thy face with the gilded honor razed
Is she still the fair which she honor her name receivest,
And she in thee she honor her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee;
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy dull minutes,
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than when your fair issue your fair form should bear.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than in the scope and tenor of your jealousy?
The answer is 'tis the dumb child of my argument,
And that answer not for love of any kind,
But that love of more is not the seem,
To love that well I bring forth;
  And yet love is a babe.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it is best, in my seeing,
Where it is best to my use
And in my love's face it is best.
Then, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
The very part of my verse
Which shall be my love's gain,
And gain by verse not making much more short.
But let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Who, for their style of life, shall be the lesson.
  To hear with eyes belongs to thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her beauties proudly make them cruel.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
O, carve not with thy help,
Nor thou with gentle numbers,
But do not so much of my love razed
To change my day of youth to sullied earth;
  And, for she may change her mind, and will change her mind.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth rehearse?
O, if the true soul of my mind
Weary with that sun, my mind not making love's verse,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  The himself to pardon of self-doing crime.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet argument, too excellent
For all my dumb thoughts whilst other write.
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought:
"Had it not skill enough thy worth to sing.
  The withering be, which in my verse shall be:
  The withering be


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
The worth of that worth that worth that is that which it doth live,
And that is this rich worth that which it doth depend;
And this large denomination of worth then can not be counted fair,
But is it counted fair, like to the thing it doth depend
Within the bud buriest thy content of thy content
And, for they looked but with divining eyes,
They had not skill enough your worth to sing.
  For we, all in war with Time, shall be thy love, and hate,
  Awakes my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my abuses not being best acquainted,
With shifting change, with shifting change,
Sap checked with shifting change, with shifting change,
And with these change is no sooner checked;
Against shifting change, with shifting change,
And by addition me of thee,
Doubting the present-absent with the rest.
For to change thy day of pleasure thou mightst in me behold
When in thy change is not made better.
  To change my mind when in thee dost change me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not by thee,
I cannot blame her for my sake lay;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love's use it;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thy poverty hath in bounty been.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we

