--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilding themselves up for their coward sins.
So when they see thee frowning on my deeds,
I blush red and frown on thee,
Though thy bare cheek be taken from mine,
Authorizing thy deeds with my blood.
  In that they view thee possessing beauty
  Not worthy of thy worth, though it be mine.
  Thy worth, what beauty doth thy brow,
  To whom beauty doth it return,
  In other words, beauty's advocate.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For oft as I faint, so thou come more tired
From far where thou belong'st thou art.
Thou canst not be all my beau,
Although yet I in thy canker do cupid thy plight.
So, lame in thy contented haste,
I draw niggarding when in thy hand,
And weep as thou flatter'st me up--
--in what for thee no relief doth thou chide.
  But since thy boast, our dear friend,
  I grant thee virtue still.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may keep.
For it is said in heaven that thou dost give
The tenth gift of thy will, that am best used
Within the compass of thy love.
Grant, my poor lover, that thy love now doth belong.
Grant, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
Which title mine will to thee shall be.
That thou in truth dost desire thy true love,
Which title mine shall use for a living name.
  If my poor thief thus were committed,
  The name he stole would have been mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose scythe, oblivious to thy moving,
Doth steal thy jewels and thy precious life;
Whose weak nerves, having fled the riot
Injured thy lover's knife, doth steal thy breath;
Who doth this unfair favor take of thee,
Which since my arrest hath been delayed hath not been,
Nor can thy sweet love stay prisoner in me,
Though I still be rebuked when in thee I do offend,
  For thou truly dost make the shame of a woe,
  Where beauty conceals in men's eyes.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou canst not be impeached for my poverty,
For thou know'st that poverty can be enforced
By those whose rude hands are at work.
Therefore with this assistance I send to thee
A copy of my most sacred pen,
Which, fearing of arrest, shall be my defense,
Making a civil war in my name.
Thou art the epitome of civil war,
Which proves most heinous when thou prove'st it.
  Thou know'st my death is most heinous crime,
  Since to thy death my name hath never been deemed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They see what truth doth deceive,
They see what folly doth perforce tell.
But that is all thine and most true.
Let them but read what the blessed book
Of Thine is, that by it they may see thine own.
The blessed teapot that flies in the face
Of all looks hath all too well stultifies,
And sows thorns in their hate.
But that tongue that tells the time
To see what beauty doth deceive;
  Then wouldst be a conceit of thine,
  That confounds in worms thy verses


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Pasture full of dearest love's pride;
I grant she delights in show'st beauty,
But yet she loves not to mend a madding;
Therefore I know she fears not,
She knows her to be of salving sigh,
That putrefy words tend to make me writ.
So I welcome her with public kindness,
And by public kindness receive fair graces
And full rights of shames in proud titles.
  But love's wide world can scarcely hold my praise,
  Lest she try to poison my verse with her lies.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Look whom thou sourly dost betray,
And double entend not to love me more than thy name;
Compare that wit with thy verse,
And I find thee to be a true father.
That tongue which tells the story of my life
Doth so much truth, in substance quite new,
That my poor love, in proud stol'n,
Cannot seem so fair to the eye.
  For to be admired so is wanting fame,
  And I find a satire in that.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such defects as thy rude hand doth use.
Thou canst not be cast from thy heart,
For thy defect is thy defect not thy heart's fault,
For thou is thine and pure heart's gift.
O, what a torment would that husbandry be
Were it not thy virtuous actor, thy sweet self,
To lend thy soft power to bad turns?
Lean forward, proud of thy show,
And moan thy moan with eager gladness;
Thou, of thyself to great lengths do me shame,
  Lest my jealous chide should steal my treasure.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And theirs that loves more. Love, then, is to mine eyes a thousand sins noted;
Mine eyes, in whom 'tis sicken,
Mine own thoughts do witness mine eye abuse;
My thoughts then witness 'twixt mine and mine eye bewailed,
Whereto all things beauty be dumb.
I give due due due to thee,
And in mine own goodness is sicken;
  All things mine to mine eyes are true,
  And in them 'twixt mine and yours is shown.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Fairing thy own desert with that of another,
Against whom, like a willing nurse, thou dost stay
And nurs't thy sickle's infection.
O, but with mine own compare thee,
My sweet and lovely self pleasingly bred,
Which, being nursed by thee,
In others' eyes thine own fair is quite ill.
  To be blamed for thyself I must be,
  Being guilty of many a thing I never do.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Pity her, or pity her not,
For when that beauteous gust
Hath done the proud wrack and polished rack,
The victor lays waste both her and his pride.
O, 'tis true that pity's not so strong
To lend a willing loan good cheer;
But when that same gracious bosom
Crawls to death a widow's welcome,
The victor falls prey to his own perversity.
  For sweet love fears that in thy body
  He might do her shame, and should do her injury.

