--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath no whit, no color,
But is haply of a fairest hue.
For thou art more red than thy jeans are white;
If they have devised a fairest lie,
Thy complexion be a fairest shade dyed.
I grant thou art more red than thy painted counterfeit;
And, for a woman wert thou first created,
Thou of more delight than tongue, more bright, far greater.
  And, for a woman wert thou first created,
  And, for a woman wert thou first created.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy guilt give physic to mine eye.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Neither can thy guilt give physic to mine eye.
Both are equally fair, though in different respects.
Thou dost love my friend, my foe being
And to thy sweet friend doth share a part.
  Then, if my friend's guilt be proved,
  I am not guilty of any crime.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
He that calls upon thee, let him take
And leases thy dear merit;
He that calls upon thee to ransom, let him steal
All thy beauty and all thy parts;
And thou that call upon thee, let him take
All thy beauty's and all thy parts.
He that calls upon thee, let him take
All thy beauty's and all thy parts;
And that his spoilage is so great
That all thy sum of good will be forgot.
  Then he that calls upon thee, let him die young,
  Die young and lame, and lame thou age


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath his friend's benefit too short a look.
Thou art more than a willing patient
Of mine own desert, and I am shamed
By that which thou dost give.
Thou art the grave where buried treasure doth lie,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
They all but buried me of thee,
Haply they from me might see,
But they had better not to be friends of mine.
  Their images I loved I view in thee,
  And thou in them still


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of thy deceased self.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of thy deceased self.
Such is the time that keeps thee going,
Since, churls, thou art all the better part of me.
  Till then, churls, thou art all the better part of me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no name, no holy bower,
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of thy lovers gone,
Who all their parts of thee did give glory;
They had all thy love, but this thy gift was thine alone.
Thou gav'st a pure unstained gift,
Which used is thine alone.
  Their images thine lacked, but this thy love gave.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who hast by elements concealed concealed hidden in thee.
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
Thou best of dearest and mine only care
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
  And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
  For truth proves thievish for a prize


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou that my bad, thy good report will be well esteemed?
Thou art thy bad, too, and I an accessary
To that tongue that my good report should rightly be.
Thou art thy bad, too, and I an accessary
To that tongue that my good report should rightly be.
In other respects thou art more blessed than thou art
By what thy worth gives;
And that due is thine alone.
  Then, if thou wilt be rebuked to thee,
  Then thou art blamed of all


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more sharp than spurring?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on my tattered muse
To make my rhyme better suited?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times happier
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou use Time on my jollity?
Till I tell thee I love thee, and thou my rhyme
Thou mayst prove me wrong.
  Then mayst I dare to boast how


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth first begin.
Thou art the mother of my child,
And, as the taker of thy love, so is thy child.
I grant thou my love, sweet love;
But in thy heart thy sweet love mayst seem stronger.
Thou art more strong in thy creation than in my cheek;
For in thy cheek thy beauty mayst seem stronger.
  Then, if thou wilt prove me wrong,
  I will steal thee all my poverty;
  And thou all my good turns back again.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy dear merit with that of others' bids,
And though thy state be perjured,
Reserve thy trespass for my sin;
Beauteous were I to thy sensual love,
Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no art
But mutual render, only me for thee.
Thou art the tenth compounded amiss,
Ten times happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
  Therefore, to thy sensual love, compare thy worth with that of others' bids.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband takes delight
To have his active child with his active mind;
The widow well may keep, though not so much as his active mind.
But thou, thy active child, if not thy active mind
Within thine own sweet control,
Entitled from thy brain, thou dost keep.
Thou art the mother of all men's wombs,
And, all in thy active spirit, doth she keep,
And, all in thy active spirit doth she keep.
  And thou active child of mine, doth she keep thee.

