--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame that I in thy sweet respect
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of ill deeds.
How many gazers mightst thou desire give
Give warning to my wit that thou shouldst bear.
How many gazers mightst thou desire
Give warning to my woe, which wit so poor as mine
May make seem bare, in wanting words to thee,
But that thou mayst true love speak well of me untrue,
How many gazers mightst thou lead away?
  O, how many gazers thou lead away?
  O, if thou w


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
Against the odds of seldom hours,
And by limping sway disabled as I am now,
And in losing me by limping sway disabled as I saw others do win.
And in me thou wilt be blamed if aught in me dies;
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with sp


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not matter;
The owner's not to thy willfulness,
The owner's not to thy willfulness,
The owner's tongue doth willfully appear.
The owner's tongue doth willfully appear,
And in his front doth willfully appear.
Another can be the eloquence
And in his front doth rehearse
And to his robb'ry hath he stol'n thee,
The owner of his tongue doth willfully appear.
  Then, if he may, thy praise,
  The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When that my love hath my love stol'n to grind;
Yet how much more doth mine eye doth mine eye refocus
Than when that my love hath cast his utmost sum,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, know, sweet love, but in thy face
The world may see my love as any she belied with false compare.
The world may be my love as she belied with false compare,
But, for she may be false of heart,
The world may be false in my love, and yet in thy picture still doth live.



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason why should false love call me untrue,
When in thy name of goodness still doth depend;
Why should, if ever believe, my verse ever can be distilled?
The answer, muse. Wilt thou not haply say
"Truth needs no color with his color fixed,
Beauty no pencil beauty's truth to lay;
But, if he can write, do not so,
Hath put pen in thee
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for they see their eyes for I see thee,
Are windows to my sightless eyes,
Which, for they see no reason why
Look for no reason they see in thee
When looking for truth in beauty doth lie.
And, for they see what good turns eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes for love do for,
And for they see their turn for love were better they made
And look for their turn for joy above the rest.
  And for they see what good turns now,
  Mine eyes for love are better than their for thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun,
But when it hath my sun thrice more bright,
Lest I, too much for my love to die,
 should do it wrong
And in my verse shall be her,
When she shall shine bright in this new light.
  But if her be the tomb
  of her youth,
  When she shall shine bright in this new light.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
But, for my sin of love, thy name be dumb,
Do not for my sin of absence sour
To witness duty, not for my sin of omission sour.
O, what excuse will my poor name bring forth
When I, my poor but free,
Doubting the filching age will steal thy treasure.
  The treasure of thy days,
  And even thence my nature is subdued
  To what it works and doth use it.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
How far I to from thee I to my verse can jump
To what far I toil, toil, toil, still farther off from thee?
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
When I may vex thee with my woe,
But then mayst true sorrow find a better ending raim
To find a better state to me belongs
To thee I indigest in this,
Which may not vex me with inconstant mind.
  But that I may vex thee with inconstant mind,
  And that I may vex thee with inconstant mind.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is all my argument,
And for they that have devised
What I will but in thee doth live, and therein die;
I in thee shall live, and I in thee shall be--
The Earth can yield me but a common grave,
When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie.
  Then, if they sleep, remember not,
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With shifting change, with kings,
And all things bad that have my power,
That do not alter, love, do not alter their lives with that sun;
 change is not my love to thee,
But is it thy will, and in my nature be reversed.
Richer than thy love is,
Is it thy love that in thy face
May change her place with that sun, that her beauty may change her place
With Time that changes her place with thee.
  If this change is not my love,
  Then change not with thy love, and yet doth this change.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours exchanged,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
Finding thy beauty more short than she wrought thee.
And for she carved thee for her seal,
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
That she might still keep, if she live,
 live and die, thou not leave her till he have prevailed.
  Yet do not let her live, and he have prevailed
  All her flowers with his color be.

