--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty in hap-purchased,
Cannot bear the thought of much grief;
Thy cheeks therefore look pale, and I mourners more
Than thy cheeks did when thy heart was made sweet.
Thy lips and thy cheeks do resemble as thy deceased self
Have done in this, that I in remembrance of thee may see.
  For thee this my verse fears,
  For thou dost call my verse art sweet,
  That it may use and abuse writers' eyes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be with the world and hear my moan,
Or at the hand of the beggar,
Give my life a second lease?
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of life,
And death is cruel to every fair flower;
Death by far may seem my sorrow,
But when I am thralled in fair state,
I find relief only in my cries.
O, what a happy year it is!
Hearing this unthrift, this poor woe,
Hath a true spirit of new life in me!
  But since the bad news, so true is my story


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
In my widow's bosom, wherethrough love and hate
As the lark am bankrout is,
In me thou art thy main, and I this am the debt
And trust this dear trust to trust,
As saucy as thou art, to trust that trust with thee
Will keep mine eye awake at night,
And my love shall in that very night wake
From sleep and steal thy treasure.
  In my verse thou hast written what I have writ,
  And I in thee have added such poesy
  As truth knows will be worst abused.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I that thrice before have I sought
The pleasure of thy wit, despite thy shallow praise.
Thou dost desire that my verse should be remembered,
And, all alone, the confined matter
Is oft forgot that it hath a special place.
That tongue that calls thy epitaph to fame
Of whose works we shall all recount is misplaced.
Let that memory die with thee,
Whose sweet self doth rehearse,
And doth rehearse that which it doth rehearse.
  For heaven knows what that tongue doth rehearse'st:
  Sweet sav


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art my image, that thou mayst see
When thou art in my glassed tomb,
Whence my countenance affords,
The false godmother to my husbandry,
Robbing out thy fair moan.
Then should I question why thou art here,
When my lips are writ such lovely words,
Bound to thy sweet cheek?
Thou art thy father's image, that thy glassed tomb
Cannot hear or see,
Even in thy breast, where thou art buried.
  But since thou art mine, believe me, thou art thy mother's image.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when they behold that it lies,
They look on thy brow and see not thy face.
Then thou from thy youth, when thou art buried
In such a fashion dost forsake thy sight,
For beauty's veil doth cover thine eyes,
And thou with a widow's eye
Plods on to be queen of thy beauty.
So thou from thy youth, when thou art buried
In such a fashion dost forsake thy sight
And be buried in such a fashion dost forsake thy sight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who wastes no time in praising his birth;
As she walks on the fair with him she walks,
And beauty's lease is that it excel
When in its burn is best profaned.
But I hold her in high esteem,
And think her to be as fair as thy eye,
Though she live with a twain not to be;
For beauty's burn is so great that no critic can find
But his praise of it.
  For beauty's burn I esteem,
  Even of thy fair friend, whom he doth speak of.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Now excuse me, then, when thou my self decease,
Now take my life, never mind my reasons,
Never see what is best;
Now tell me thou ne'er willing
By thy behavior alters my mind,
And, when that alteration is found,
I must bow before the gilded eyes
Of thy confounding spite.
Never forget that I am thy slave,
And that, for thy right, by thine going is done.
  In other words, sweet love, thou shalt grow old--
  And in this I do grow old, dear love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Too much of substance in my style.
O, if ever my pen should say more,
Thou wilt prove a more perfect writer
Than those churls that tongue affords of thee.
And yet love, like children of their owner's say,
Look what loves hath in store, that thou mayst desire.
To sell what thou wilt lend is best,
To lend thine own sweet skill, to lend thee virtue.
  And that skill in me depends on thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that same heart that calls to the action
Points out what in thee he doth invent.
As 'twixt my love and thy desire
Makes love's stone idol and thy verse grow.
So then thou seem'st to me but the image of truth,
A copy of what is best,
And, having given my love more than thy fair,
Since my love still doth this homage give:
  "'Tis thy love that keeps mine eye awake at night,
  That poor eyes are made dumb by rest to think of thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And then thy true love, when it hath contracted,
Shall hate be fairer termed?
Since thy deeds do commend thee,
Thou art more gracious than their vulgar form,
Fairing thy manners and kind manners more.
Thou art my equal in love and respect,
Beauteous and gracious subjects;
But love is not thy fair and kind review;
Neither thy fair nor kind heart can so graciously review
  As sweet and kind comments of love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
As with her a slothful husband doth attend
With care what she doth wear,
Of earth and sea and sun and eye and eye and eye;
For whilst thou dost sweets afford,
To shun the pleasures of day and night,
So thou help'st thyself to stay awake,
Thou dull'st thy beauty's proud heir."
Then to be crowned with thyself thou send'st
Such bounteous largess as thy count'st may boast;
  Or, in the world, to dwell in our sight,
  To gaze into the wide world and

