--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose plagues and famines do provoke,
Of whom tender is thy love's strength?
Why, fearing my might, do thou chide thy lust
And make me bow my head, that thou mayst still stand thy use?
Thou in self-love's power canst not make me bow thy head,
For thou alone art my self-love,
And, like a jewel struck from thy care,
Shall constancy, hatred, or none at all,
Do place thy love above that of others;
  And therein arise thy grievances,
  Lest my revolt should


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To heart my grief finds another place,
And besides this graces is my comfort,
By way of prayers answered, though I be dumb
In thought or effect of heart's batt'ring.
O, be of good cheer, that thrice abused thrust
Through my tender, poor heart my grief finds;
O, that I no more am my sorrow's bait,
For why give me so great a welcome,
When gentle love hath his use?
  O, let my sorrow sing to the world,
  Where unfairs are born and thrive on good shows.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
And perceive what hath gone sour in me.
Then how shall I be grieved when my lover's eyes
Have every fair bid me consecrate,
With him mine own good deserts seem,
Authorizing the gross and vulgar abuses I have committed.
O, let them say with me the most
Of defects contracted in thee,
That thou and I through guilty thinking canst mend.
Till they with thee draw thy sins to a stand,
That I in granting them right, am guilty of their crime.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose love and thee to thee dwell
Are both true and untainted;
That love with whom I do not approve hath no place,
Whereto all right is my all subject.
Thou best of few belongs to that mine eye
Cannot better express than this thy painter hath
Hissy with refractive stone,
To show what our faults are.
  Be thou thyself self proud, for pride in thee lies,
  And this tongue hath expressed his withering.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What can my stone do to steel a sword?
What can thy golden ear to thy kiss achieve
Whose worth would make thee seem blunt,
Although hoarse and heavily churl Death forbid?
Thou so sirely murd'rous, that thou denyest thy right,
And canst not pardon me for thy crime
Unless thou send my bones home with some sort of favor.
  Kill me thus, and give thine foe another chance.
  The worst of this most heinous crime lies in thy breast,
  Where abundance breeds beauty's sickle.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They feel it in others' eyes, but nought is it there
To give sweet praise to that which doth first belong.
Be thou, they say, willing reader of my verse;
The brine which thou dost eat, remembered well
By old hours told of thy hours.
Mark what an ill blessed mortal looks like,
Before our sight the present ill so blessed
To call his glance the want of days.
  Then shiver not with thy kiss the present ill,
  Since such a mark the present year doth hang,
  Since thou know'st what an ill-


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such wealth is as silver's lusty thief.
In truth, when I have seen she hath taken from thee,
My heart hath felt the true passion;
But, like a jewel from among ripe pearls,
My heart thinks the spur is nimble,
And, sloughing away in his fresh case,
Hath placed a new love at ease.
Now she hath thought it and my thoughts fitted,
And, being at a loss, bids my heart recite;
  Presume not my grief when I am deemed dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give not thy appearance substance enough of merit
And compound virtue too great a name.
Suffer not even mine eye to benefit from thee,
Or tongue, for that same effect can speak
Thy inward self too dear to dwell in public.
Let me confess that I love thee in so great
As to receive thy lascivious praise,
And that thou hath sullied my fair flower,
To reap all my hindrances.
But yet thou, thyself too passive for mine eye,
Thou art more deserving of thy praise.
  To receive this from elsewhere I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sour sweet taste to that bitter cup I bring
From home to eat.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Although I be not thy spoil, nor be thy state,
Supposed as a swallowed bait,
Desiring after thee quicker than thou get'st.
Thou, sweet friend overween appetites,
Is bent upon me thy foe,
And thereby becomes my foe's friend,
  And thus endures confounded famines,
  In whom thou dost wish to die.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That my shallow shallow deepest well shows.
I grant my dear love's influence is in many particulars lacking,
Much liker than my rude critic's boast.
Thou mak'st my humble day in mind too weak to blush,
And thy stout dignity, adverse to proud onset,
To show signs of frailties graces blamed.
But now, having laid waste the store with idle praise,
Thy records are done, and I glory in thee.
  In a thousand lines of thought, thou art truly divine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Knowing thy own worth, good in thy seeing,
Against thy harmful pride making me a burden.
Thou whose own worth hath worth had in mind,
Against whom proud praise doth belong,
Against whom false speech doth worse!
Thus have I had mine own sensual love held down,
Against whom the proudest praise canst not show
But gentle words praising thee.
  For thee my love is but mine own,
  For whom praise doth so belong,
  Which thoughts bestow their joys upon thine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
What excuse can there then
If not from instinct to give birth to the woe,
Then of an older and stronger state to bear
Than hush-weathered riper maiden?
Or from a better state where the eye of state
Can watch over the sickle's eye and comfort the bereft,
Sets her down to the level of ease;
She can no more hide thy drooping head from view,
Nor false witness to every crime tell.
  She lives; but her life is forfeit;
  And for her there lives no defense.

