--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown is fairest in my seeing.
I grant thou wert not black stol'n,
Thou art more bright than thy mother's cheek,
And worse fitted for a frown.
Thou canst not even wink wink with mine eye,
Distinguished from thy friends, even so as thy mother's cheek
Presents thy shadow to my heart's view,
Which like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
  I grant thou art old, black night beauteous,
  And nights bright


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust your heart in quest to trust?
O, if thou wilt, thou art as wilt as my thief,
Not so much as mine, but for my sake will be.
For thee I'll live no stone untrimmed,
Nor my bad, thou mine, mine eye hath all too short a view.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In all worth's art.
That due of many, though small, yet I in thee will be.
  And in thee I'll live a pure unstained doom,
  Which shall be thy sum of good and


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
For if the former my lease is not renewed,
The former my great deserts be
And thine own great deserts repay for thee.
Then what could death do if thou couldst depart
From thy dear love to thine own desert?
Thou art thy foe, my friend thou art.
Therefore to be death's conquest and make worms thine heir;
He that leads thee in his riot,
The one by toil, the other to complain
How far a modern quill doth come too short?
  Thou art thy foe, my friend thou art.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose adverse party is thy advocate,
And the constancy of his thunder.
Th' expense of thy thunder, if not compounded,
Shall faults be forgiven; and in thee this is impaneled
A story told in praise of thy worth.
Th' expense of thee blurring of heart,
Which on thy humor hath annexed thy breath;
A story told wherein virtuous minds
Have given thee thy gift; and on thee
 ills given thee blest praise.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou thy glass shall stand against my sightless view,
Thy dial how far off from my heart thou art?
Ay me, but yet thou art assured my right;
My great deserts make thee my vassalage,
And thy sweet merit hath my lameness.
Thou art thy adversary, and my jewels trifles are thy preserve,
Since, churls, thy great deserts shall have,
And my beauteous blessings curse thee.
  Since, churls, thy sins shall have,
  I will drink th' cup from thy glass,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And even thence thou wilt prove
The wert thou first created.
Then, if they see thee wink,
Thou dost deceive them,
By thinking on thy face
When thou art all the better part of me.
How can they be deceived, though thou art so bright
That their false adulterate eyes
With thy much clearer vision may see
How far a deceived husbandry can take
To clear his wife's eyes?
  Their images thou viewest but through thy vision;
  They but view thine, not thy pure heart,
  Which thy pure heart doth


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in thee Time's furrows I behold
These blenches gave thy love away,
Making me a babe. Then, churls, remember not
The hand that writ this on thee
When thou art all the better part of me,
Thy beauty still, though altered new,
Cannot be stopped, though stopped short of hate,
By force of love, not by thy humor.
  Presume not on thy humor when my love drowns
  But rather make worms thine heir,
  To love that worms thine heir may keep.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee frown on my blush
Since first I saw thee frown on my blush?
Have I not seen thee frown on my brow
Before my sight, and thou in my cheek
Hath my distillation set.
Ah, but, have I not seen thee frown on my brow
Before my sight, and thou in my cheek
Crawls to maturity, where time and outward form would show
How far a modern quill doth come too short.
  Take heed, dear heart, of this large fair verse
  That this large section on thy beauty shall bestow it.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more strong than that which thou thyself dost give.
Let those whom thou wilt not confound,
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times happier than thou art
Compare thy worth with the rest of the world,
By attending thy leisure heretic;
Thou the stronger of a poet's rage
The one who mayst publish his wit;
The other doth flatter his scythe,
With inferior tongues doth he give invention light.
  "Thou gav'st a common tongue, to whom doth flatter such a wretch'st song


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth first begin.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
How many a gazer mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many a gazer mightst take from thee
  As from thee, to stop thy offense!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy deeds with theirs, and be a constancy
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
That thy state, inferior far to theirs,
Cheered not by thy own desert, but by the state itself bore;
That the better part of thee is best,
For better thou art made of two,
Since better thou art made of four.
  Then thou hast best of both, and I thine,
  Since thy state doth deceive and deceive thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband takes delight
To make widow's widow mad,
Whose action is no quicker than his eye?
Beauteous were not so till now unset,
Made more by war, by conquest,
Or stretched before his own sweet face;
For, if Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her husbandry mayst happiastically enrich.
  Thus do I pine, surfeit husband, in thy love,
  And thou, thyself outgoing, willst

