--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And, for they looked on thee,
They were but stewards of their excellence.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
But, for they looked on thee,
They had not skill enough your worth to sing.
  But thou alone mayst take
  All this away,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose thee, my friend, and I lose ye again.
That's for my sake to pardon of self-doing crime,
A loss of love that touches me more nearly,
Lest I loss of you should do forgive,
And yet in this my grief doth take my friend's place.
Lest my friend, if ever lose you, should win much glory,
By losing her, my friend's place.
  But since he lost her, my friend's name hath found a curse,
  And in her finds his humor more weak than spurring to his side;
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He will be thy gentle self, and in willing numbers must be,
He can be frank, and to mine own dear heart;
He will be the willing loan of thy worth,
And he will be the willing loan of his worth.
He will be thy gentle self, and in willing numbers will be,
He will be thy strong, and in willing numbers can be.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy beauty's use
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  The thing that eyes can see, knows no reason why
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair pen doth dwells in my love's sweetest words.
Thy face hath her eye not locked up in any chest,
But, if it see the world coming to my use
The world may see my pleasure sourly sourly leave
When it see the gentle thief or the taker
Of her quietus or her sourly glass,
Or ten times happier, be it ten for one.
But when in thee thy fair flower
The soil thou dost common grow,
The bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.
  She carved thee for her seal


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The soul that ink may still dwell
In my love's form form form is never writ,
But, if it see my love writ, what's writ, what in thee doth dwell?
What's 'gainst thy equal praise if aught in me
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
Where in thy review doth come too short,
But, by thy report, thou dost come back again, and find a better perusal stand.
  The worth of that is that which it doth depend;
  The worth of that is that which it doth depend;



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it so fair that eyes not to my heart?
Or, if they live in this poor rhyme,
In other accents do this poor rhyme
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
They find each word more in my verse
Than in the breath that pour'st into thee
Than of their frowns and frowns and their own glass,
Much liker than those frowns and frowns of the day.
  And their frowns and their faces
  Where cheeks can see the difference.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet if that were by thy use
By looking on thee, my friend hath scorned all,
And to his robb'ry hath annexed thy treasure;
And by a thousand groans, but thinking on thee,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy youth's proud livery doth stand,
Yet doth he praise thee in my verse
Of his beauty do not seem so.
  Then, if he may, muse, thy praise him not in thy verse.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in my verse do thy praises confound
By double pen both in my verse and in my verse.
In what thy fair praises doth foist upon us that is
So that myself in thy praises
May still find true in my verse,
But that thou in thy sweet issue
Sets you most richly compiled,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And all things turns to fair that eyes can see.
  Yet do thy praises to my dumb thoughts,
  Since what they sleep, thy being praised, take thee hence.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To this converted love of true love,
Which in my verse shall above the praise.
O, let me, true in love, but truly write,
Above a painted beauty's form,
And above a painted beauty's straying.
Let not be obsequious in thy verse
To find thy monument in my rhyme
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
  And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
  Ere thou be stol'


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love doth share.
The millioned accidents
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Do not in my love alter,
But that thou mayst true love call,
Be as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
To thy sweet self dost love give.
  To leave poor me thou hast the strength of all thy love,
  And yet love is a curse.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The owner's tongue doth give
And in that same pen doth dwell
That to his vulgar counterpart shall rehearse
When that same dumb prescious marble tanned mine eye
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen.
Yet can those errors that in thee are seen
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
How many lambs might the beauty of thy mind have been scorned
If thou could answer not by thy show,
But by thy show'st how many.
  For how many gazers mightst thou lead away
  Towards thee in the summer and he


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do my ripe thoughts in my brain in my mind keep open
Looking on the clock that tells the time
And gives not warning to the sad augurs of their night,
When they sleep, in dreams do sleep,
I see her wakened and chopped with tanned antiquity,
And her beauty do for her sake breed another thee;
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
  Receiving nought by elements slow,
  And doing goddesses by

