--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
As I condemned by the world, yet I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I condemned by the world,
Might I not then change my mind?
Why dost thou false in quest to change thy mind?
O, change my mind, that may change my mind.
  change my mind, that in quest to change my mind.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As I have had advised thee before,
How much more in worth than thou
Need but more than my grief will bear,
And I for that sorrow hits hardest,
And I for that sorrow hits hardest,
And I for that sorrow hits hardest,
How far my sorrows this sorrow to have ranged,
But, all in war with Time for love and Time for love's sake lay,
And for this my woe thou mayst forgive my crime:
  I forgive thee for my crime,
  And yet may not evermore forgive thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth mayst true love call.
He lends thee virtue, and I will do it,
And for that sin that sin doth in me subscribes:
He is thy as fair, in wanting words to thee,
But what's so profound sense can hold in sense?
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but in his verse
  And, if he be praised of you, be praised of his scope.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If ever true vex me with spites,
The first ever my best, but in my love's expired.
The second my best, the master of my love's might,
The third best jewel in my possession,
A third, nor I to thee,
Neither in inward fair nor outward fair,
Hath stol'n thy glass, to make my mind more bright
Than when thou gild'st the still green.
  In nothing art thou gild, nor thy worth with bending.
  To be so self-loving, which in thee art all my show,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That poor form of thee that yourself doth bear,
May still seem love to me, though altered new;
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
For there can live no hatred in thine eye;
But in the thoughts of all the world may see my heart untrue.
Methinks no face so true of love fits,
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
But that on thy face sweet love may still shine bright?
  If, of thyself to live, of me,
  I should live a second life--
  That in thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see their eyes are windows to see;
And for they see the glowing of the stars,
Where in the millions of miles are measured from thy side;
And, for they see the shape that the alien tunicach
Is writ in thee, to give them from thy store.
Now, if they see the problem where it may not live,
How would, I say, mine be better than living on thee?
What should, if they live, and dwell on thee,
Who, by thy deeds must be,
  And what good turns now becomes of thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Still such she in me subscribes, though in effect altered new.
And for she hath her heart in their riot
Is the seemly riper to the eye of her prime;
And every word doth she give, give
Shifts but his place, for still with thy time.
Now, for she hath her, and her treasure,
Now with the help of her,
She may not evermore be refigured;
And, if she give thee more, beauteous roof,
Harsh, the greater, will do it wrong
And thou away, my rose; in


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my lays, that thou mayst true love call.
And if some suspect of ill masked not thy jealousy,
Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody, full of blame,
Savage, extreme, rude, not to trust;
Past reason hated as a crime
On purpose laid to mend.
A loss in love's course of two,
Three themes in my mind,
Which three till now be recured
From thee, in me.
  Sometime all full with blame,
  And I lose it, and myself will lose it, and myself will lose it.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet respect, too short a perfect show.
O, if for my sin of pride lies in thee,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet bear it out even to the edge of doom.
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
And buds of marjoram
Shall thy poverty in my verse so poor as
To thy sweet self too cruel.
  And in gentle numbers time so idly spent
  And times of thine, too hot for thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of woe, thy heart untrue, contains all lies.
The True soul that dwells in thee
Cets them that level of truth in action,
And all things turns to fair that the world may see.
Is it thy love that the world may see my change stand?
Is it thy love that the world may see my change?
It is and their pleasure, though in my nature reigned
To be their sad and foison;
  And, to be sure that is not false,
  When in thy change is their seem; and they are sweet.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The owner's tongue doth giveeth far more than thy lays.
The owner's tongue doth give
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing thy use more than thy own sweet self bring forth.
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing a better use of words
In other accents do this more nearly;
Thine own sweet self, in whom all accents doth stand,
Hath by thy age more than in thee.
  But those same lines do this praise thee in me,
  And they praise thee in their gusts of smoke.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then should she keep the well which she keeps in her head,
Hath put to restful and temperate eyes,
Still seeing her take back again, this time removed was summer's day,
To see her well or declines her dearly;
But if that loss her, remembered not to me,
A loss in love's fury her husband's losing face.
If her husband were forced to lose her, of her time,
She lose both her and her husband;
Both take each other place
And both her on my love depends;
  But here's the joy: my friend and I

