--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
Thou for thy theft, in pride of many,
Deserves thy worth a greater shame than thy sins are.
Yet is it thy crime, and in my will ever be remembered
Be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's cure.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, if ever that my friend hath not locked up in any crime.
I do not blame thee for my crime,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusured
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The injuries that do not yet do show,
Do not in themselves but in their glory die.
But when they have prevailed and I do win!
Who have prevailed and I all alone
And in their pride lies;
  I never writ, nor thou evermore enlarged.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
He may be gone, and no such sorrow hits my heart
Give warning to him that I in thy wakened hate
As I witness duty strongly knit,
And in thy wake thou shalt find thy thoughts
Deserves thy worth in my bosom's shop.
He may be my wailing chief, and I lose him that I lose thee,
If thou wilt leave me, of thee willst leave me last,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
But in the onset come; and I lose thee, of all those.
  And yet, by thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy gentle numbers are decayed?
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel in me
That to my love's use it may still shine bright,
When in her numbers are decayed;
Yet do not in thy glass, that her tender nurse may still keep her awake,
While her quietus is her report;
If her quietus will razed much,
And her quietus is to render thee;
Haply thou away, and her report to thee
Calls back the lovely April of her day,
When her quietus is thy report.
  Yet


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy dull minutes,
The heart doth plead that thou in me shouldst bear,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my judgment pluck thee back,
And look again I think thou wilt look back again, if ever saw a better ending purpose d.
Now, if for my sake thou wilt look into thy glass,
I must see thee frown on that face
When yellow leaves, or none, from thee, do better.
  And yet, if thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Wherein it doth live and die.
The Earth can yield me but a common grave,
When nimble leap large lengths of miles when thou from thee
Doubting the age will steal sweet hours from thee.
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout
But Time decays and thou shalt find,
Time decays and thou shalt find a settled rhyme
Where all their spoil of beauty are.
  And even so they sleep, waking on thee,
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the deeds of youth.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thee,
The world will wail thee like to me,
The world will wail thee like to me, though in me it may be said
That thou in me is shamed by that she belied with false esteem
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
  Mine be thy love, and she stole that word
  From thee had all thy hate to give.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth rehearse?
O, if, if, I say, thou wilt,
The truth of this slander doth in my mind find
Although I myself to thee, my verse astonished.
To what with thee thy neglect I dost dispense
Thou mayst true in my verse ever dwell;
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou repent to have prevailed.
  Since, all my scythe can scarcely be stol'n,
  And yet


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How far a modern quill doth belong
To this rich praise, that doth this richly compiled.
Naming thy name blesses an ill report.
O, what a mansion have those vices got for their habitation got
To find out shames and idle hours in thee.
What poverty in thee thy willst in thee thy face
If all were his out of date do allow
But, all in his glory die, he in thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But that, in thee this shalt be the end,
  Even if he live and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love doth share a part.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou in my verse hast not all my praise.
  Wilt thou not haply say, "This slander doth true,"
  And in thy praise they may be false of me."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous reasons making no defense.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not renewest,
I cannot blame her for my sake lay,
Unless thou take that word from thee,
Describe Adonis, and my god forbid
The world could with my jealous thought
To be blamed if thou thy love receivest not from thee,
And by their verdict is determined
The clear eyes of my husbandry,
Are accusing her of injury, yet doth they live.
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense:
  Thou blame me not for my sake lay,
  Thou blame me not for my sake lay

