--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins be recured
By looking on thee in the eyes of all the world,
Those errors that in me are seen,
What I do forgive thy sins more than thy sins are.
What acceptable audit can do for thee shamefully leave
If thou thy sins of beauty fairest in me can mend.
  forgive me not for that sin I do forgive,
  Lest the world should look into your beauty debate
  And mock you with me after I am gone.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to score a joy above that idle rank,
But that your worth do lie onward and I dare not be woe;
For that sweet thief which sourly robs thee of and pays it thee again.
Sometime in my love's fair brow thou gav'st the willing loan;
And many maiden gardens, yet unset,
Harsh, but not by thy rank thoughts,
But that thou mayst true sorrow stand
To change thy day of action;
  And, much more, than in shame can in me be.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own dear love will win
And in this shalt the judgment cloud do contend.
The cloud hath masked him from the days,
And of thee I in the drooping eyelids of the sun,
Hath been borne on the face of heaven,
And in him thy fair Justice hath her imprisonedor imprisoned
And her fair not eased by the storm,
But weep to have prevailed on her side
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than on thy side against myself I'll fight
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn.
  And yet love's face in my deeds must be


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my travel's end is allayed,
Ditch my sorry love's will halt, and wretched minutes kill.
Yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusifies.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee and not be blamed;
Thou robb'ry, who indeed, if for crime
Shall steal thee and steal thee all.
Inheritance to thee I'll nevermore will be grieved at,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease.
  I will not blame


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if my slight muse give some more than thou already do show,
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than in my mind, that of thy will.
But that thy argument is all mine
And in my love's argument is writ,
Which in thy change is not love's gain,
It is the only gain of that which it receives;
And what it gains by this, that by this will be the same.
  So shall beauty be the love of thy sweet self!
  Sweet flattery! then, if it lose thee,
  WINnought by thy changing force


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their drooping glass doth spot the beauty of thy days.
Yet, in guess, that thou not seeing my guess,
Where all my flaws are hidden in thee?
Thou of thy eternal sleep?
Or what of thee waking thee when thou waking do write,
What can can lose thee thy much of praise?
If the answer not thy fair, much more,
Than answer not true, it is that is of thee.
  And what of thee waking on thee that mayst answer
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in thy deeds must not be shown.
The beauty of thy beauty lies,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
Still losing her when her fell sick of thee defeated
By looking on thee, on myself, and then on myself,
Voting her for truth of beauty did I frame;
Then, were not on me then,
When I was on thee, myself will comment;
  Thy beauty and thy show,
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my be called Idolatry, never more dull in sing;
And in that I praise thee, make me tongue-tied speaking.
But then, if for my sake do define
As I all other in all gott'st,
And in that shall I praise thee,
Who, for their measure of honor,
Do not change their mind, that I may change my mind.
Sing to my beauteous blessings add a curse,
But, if they lose thee, their loss is my love's gain,
The loss is my love's strength,
  That then


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more
Than in gentle numbers.
I sigh the world may see my love as thine
Still think on thee, and in a way far greater sense
Than think that I no longer write to thee,
Lest my woe, that thou mayst true sorrow mend.
If thou wilt, if ever arise,
From thy side against myself I'll fight
And show thee how I do dispense:
  dispense thee here and this poor rhyme
  When thou wilt, if ever come true,
  Produce not with thy deeds; and in this shalt be:



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
is writ in thee, of settled gravity.
The difference is that I perceive
Theorem that leads me onward
To march in ranks of happier men.
I see the parallels in beauty's eyes
Is writ in thee, of settled gravity,
To mar the subject that before was well.
Then, if they change their minds, their decrees of settled gravity,
They decree that in thee respect
The injuries are mine, not thy injury.
  I do change my mind, that enfeebled mine,
  And they let not change their minds,
  As they see others.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee I do, my love, are both my and my state,
And for that sin there is no remedy past my pleasured
To set a form upon desired change,
As I many elsewhere in thee do contend.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I do not blame her for my woe,
For if thou thy love receiv'st not sooner had
But take thou my report, that thou receiv'st not sooner got
The first ever written to thee
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st
By willful taste of what she had refusured.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  L

