--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lips and cheeks are as thy tongue doth rehearse,
For I am thy mother tongue, and thou art my father's.
So when thy mother's breath is full of thee,
Her tongue my father gave thee,
And she in thee, as the canker grows,
Comes in a sort of unstained stupa
That her nerves may well be deemed
By thy mother's skill, though altered a little.
  She that gives thee breath, so thy body may be deemed
  To breathe the living thing that breathes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I am not cruel,
Nor can I long forlorn myself when I am grieved,
Nor can I vex myself with jealous thoughts
When I have won a prize of worth,
Or better still, more blessed than mine,
Than 'twixt a miser and his wealth is.
So I am not so cruel as some say,
And yet they say I am cruel,
Although I am a miser, and they prove
By envy my worth, not my love's.
  For they think I am more blessed than they think,
  Because I am a miser, and


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
For thou thyself art mine and I must live
And that is my all the world, to give thee all thy glory.
But now thy trespass hath been,
And I swear by thee that I will live,
And that thou live, mine is the world, to give thee all thy glory.
  Then, if thou survive this my crime,
  And this in trust be my all, I will live,
  And that this in trust be my all,
  To give thee all thy all thy all.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since my dear love hath within me a certain
Duty, which in thee is determined.
Thou, my love being so strongly in my power,
Cannot but complain when others' complain;
The sooner the better for me to do him injury
The sooner I will do him injury,
The sooner I will straightway give thee back again.
Thou, my love being so strongly in my control,
Cannot but complain when others' complain;
The sooner I will straightway give thee back again.
  If I have any grudge against thee,
  The greater it is my


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the tenth dove, ten times more blessed than thou art
Or the first born of one of thine,
Or, if thou survive this time, be crowned new.
Thou art the tenth dove that flies in one of thine,
And, being crowned of nine, is thine heir.
Then, if thou survive this time, be crowned new,
And be buried with me, be thou my beauteous muse.
  This title, thou art to be, shall never be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost deceive, the very birds of prey.
Thou art the prey of a jealous tongue,
Which calls all things 'beauty' and all things 'fair'
That all things 'fair' are but shadows of thy sight.
All things 'fair' are but thine,
And beauty's only praise is that which it bestows.
All things 'fair' are but thine,
And all things 'fair' are dunces in thy sight.
  Therefore, despite thy praise, I forbid thee
  To steal thy treasure and all thy treasure's shame.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she might say
"Fair thou art my sport."
I do believe her, though she not know
How fair I will be twain when she reigns,
And that she might say
"Fair thou art my sport."
So then I grant her all my love and all my grief,
And that she hath her own love to hurt,
And that she hath mine own love to hurt me.
  But what of thee doth my grief engraft,
  Thou art mine, mine, thy love to hurt me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make no slander of mine own name among the tenants,
Nor slander my birth nor my love's name among the tenants;
Mark how my widow gives to orphans all kinds of care;
Give not a flatterer's scythe but a kind of respect;
Give not a flatterer a gilded tomb,
But let my copy survive in good faith,
And for a look at my memory live long,
And all alike good looks.
  So should my papers, which have power to do more,
  More than thy dull spite will ever entertain.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thou hast in thy heart.
For how can I be glad that thou art well-contented,
When in thy breast thy love hath grown,
And in thy breast thy lover's love hath grown,
And that thou art well-rested to bear it?
O, be assured that I am well-rested,
When in thy breast thy love hath grown,
And that in mine breast thou wilt bear it.
  For that thou mayst taste my sweet love
  Shall be the recompense of many a sluttish story.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me they esteem is greatest.
For why should mine eye, which is in love with mine eye,
Save where my heart hath found such a sullied show,
Or eyes that love thee in thy heart,
Save where my heart hath found such a sullied show,
And eyes that love thee in thy heart,
Save where my heart hath found such a sullied show.
  To hear this, my heart's action is lame,
  Being mounted on the wind;
  To hear this, my heart's action is joyless.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That is, true to thy nature,
And true to my nature's truth,
And true to thy good report,
Making false all kinds of praise.
Thou, being false, that in thy nature
Thou dost lie, being tongue-tied,
Making false all kinds of praise.
For tongue-tied thou know'st so great a truth
That I, tongue-tied, am to speak of thee.
  For what praise can tongues give thee,
  Unless thou speak it true?
  Thys, tongue-tied, hath the power to give


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let her go, my love! Wherefore do not thou thy hand deface,
Or steal thy beauty's beauty from thy brow?
O, what a mansion have those poor beauties got,
Which husbandry for ornament hath not yet crowned?
O, what a mansion have those poor beauties got,
Which husbandry for ornament hath not yet crowned?
  O, what a mansion have those poor beauties got,
  That husbandry for ornament hath not yet crowned?
  O, what a mansion have those poor beauties got,
  Where husbandry for ornament hath

