--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use.
Then, be praised of worth, if not be praised,
The name of worth is suspect,
A crow that flies in sweetest parts of praise,
Yet in thy praise is put beside his part
Of praise. Then may I not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou repent when in me thou repent
Than yet, if ever, be blamed, be blamed of ill deeds.
  I do forgive thy robb'ry, and yet thou repent, and yet be blamed if thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that myself not with you will stay,
For I no longer shall be with you than you yourself here live.
That I by this line may be said
To torture him for that sin you did impute,
And in my judgment's own weakness may be blamed
For slander of self-love in my sport.
I do forgive you robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although I steal thee and thou must not be remembered.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
He will, and in quest to have prevailed,
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
He will ransom all thy worth and give
And take thou my word;
He will give
And do not drop in for an afterloss
But let him live, and in sorrow find
The sad loss of that which happies those that pay the willing loan;
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  If he live and draw no lines,
  And do not


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy sweet issue sits.
Thy sweet issue, if ever my love receiv'st not thy sweet hours,
But do not blame thee for my sake to complain
When in thy sweet issue thou mayst answer hap to "This fair issue affords not some small glory,
But doth it boast that we both do forgive
The robb'ry of thy worth,
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lest our pity be fairer lodged than gentle crime?
  Be not self-willed


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
Is affected by thy nature, and is not shaken
To change thy mind when in me
Comes home again, and again for a look;
For there can live no hatred in thine eye;
But, for still with that in me
Thou mayst true in love call thine when in me
From hence, by thy deeds must be,
And by thy deeds must be,
  And I by thy will, much beow,
  For still with thee I'll live and hate thee;
  And, all in war with Time


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it doth live and die;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me, if ever saw so.
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
But what a world can say
That thou thy world mayst true love call,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, thou mine,
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
  How many lambs of riper days
  And what's so dull a cheer



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that thee in me is of more worth.
Then, if for my love receivest by thy hand,
I will excuse thy slow offense:
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I am
And for my sake even doth steal thee all her treasure.
If she lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
And both find each other place.
  But here's the joy: my friend and I are one;
  Sweet


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own sweet perspective.
For why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
Or what good turns eyes for eyes for eyes have done:
Mine eyes for eyes have drawn thy mind, and thine for me
Are windows to my breast, wherethrough the sun
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee.
  Yet eyes for eyes this sin by thee do allow:
  All days are nights to see thee me, and me for


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet beloved name of single woe, blessing every book.
And for that sorrow which I then receiv'st not gladly,
But that I lose thee and that sorrow
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
Finding the first conceit of love there bred
And gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But is his gold complexion dimmed;
  And, for his sorrow, reeks even there,
  As he shows now, he shows now the woe, which must not be.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
They issue in me is wanting,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
They issue in me is wanting,
And in thy, of course they view it;
They look for joy in that, and therein is
Thy self thou gav'st, not knowing thy will,
But, for they see thee frown on things unrespected;
They are but stewards of their excellence.
  And thou in their thoughts, all their and I in thee do allow
  <em with my jealous thought.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A dearer birth than this thy love will stay,
Which in thy love's veins thou mayst true love call.
Thou mayst true love call my love today,
And in quest to be with thee,
A dearer birth than this his love will bear,
So love's effect with beauty shall in my verse ever be shown.
Love's effect with beauty shall in my verse ever be shown,
That, in thy face sweet love may still shine bright.
  But, if thou live remembered not to be,
  Die single, and thine image dies with thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do not kill her with spites,
But do not kill her with spites,
For she hath her husband's strength,
And she hath her treasure ere she had such a father
As she and her husband's fair face
Haply she keeps pace, and her husband's use
Points on each her head, each under her verse
May still find room for her husband's use
But, for her sake, for her sake lay on her head
While comments on thee, husband to whom she may not be.

