--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy picture cannot make seem
To those whose dear love remembered
Worthy of thy dear merit.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
Making a couplement of proud compare.
Thou art better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' cost,
Of better art than rich making garments.
  For thee, that art more blessed than garments' cost,
  Being frank, of heart and body being frank.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my grief, heals mine eye,
Or puts an end to my torment.
No man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my grief even where it is cured.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Neither can thy praise redeem
Where thou art blamed of injury,
Either by thy confound me or thy shame.
  But what can mine own sorrow give,
  Since thy confound me to ransom thee?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Thou art thy foe, and I ransom thee
From me thy estimate, to be paid when thou art
Returned from me, by me releasing thee.
He that calls on thee, let him bring
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Whose appearance is thine and his ransom;
He that calls on thee, let him bring a gilded tomb
Which eternal age will steal thy treasure;
  And thou tomb will be thy tomb,
  Which eternal lines to time will be.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath his withering too;
More than enough is my love to boot,
Than thy adverse party hath thrust in his wing.
Thou art the greater thief, and the greater thief's delight
Than thy equal in love being made.
Both must be assailed, and both must be assailed;
And both must be blamed if thou issueless shalt hap to repent.
Thou canst not be assailed with compare,
Unless thou repent; and I am to be assailed
By those who have done thee sin of me.
  I am to be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, and I grant thou wert not counterfeited;
Yet be most proud of that which thou deserv'st alone.
Grant, thy true image may be bad,
But that thou art much too fair
To be admired everywhere, and I wish thou were.
Thou art much too fair, and I grant thou wert not counterfeited.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
  And give invention light to his verse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath in some part lived,
Seems it hath ranged, though altered new.
For if that beauty which thou viewest
Are defects concealed wherein Ist abide,
Thy sightless simplicity doth deceive,
For thy sightless simplicity doth deceive,
And thy great mind doth deceive,
And thy great mind doth deceive,
And thy great mind doth deceive,
And thy great mind deceivest when thou seeest it deceivest.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And you must live, even to the death.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I, made entirely untrue, swear it to thee.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all truth's spoilage;
My love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
Is merchandized not so great, being made of fools.
If my love were but the store
Which on thy soft cheek might open,
Or on thy soft cheek the proudest jewel,
The fairest ornament which truth doth proudly proclaim.
  She lives in this, and that her proud ornament
  Shall live in this, and that her proud ornament
  Shall live in thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My deepest sympathies are thine,
And thy shallowest sympathies are thy outward parts.
For why should I not hap to blush when thou art full
Of thy purest sympathies, to thy shallowest heart?
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
  And that thou teachest how to make one twain
  By praising thy time and thoughts.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
And do so, gentle thief, as thy worth the more;
Beauteous thief, though not so thy worth the greater.
Beauteous thief, though not so thy present good
As, thou being fond on spoils, will steal thee all my treasure.
  And do so, gentle thief, as thy present good will;
  To robb'ry in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bad, being false to trust,
My good allow me to trust those errors which thou dost not change.
Thou dost advance, and mine eye is in my mind,
Three errors in one, that in thee advance
Do witness bear all wrong,
And on thy humor even my rudeness am shown.
In thee my bad, on thy humor stand
Thy satire doth advance, and mine eye is in my mind.
  Therefore, beauteous thy good report,
  To correct a very woe.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou dost love my beauteous blessings be,
And thy state, to whom I am confined,
Duty so great, which thy jealousy discloses.
Thou dost love my beauteous blessings be,
And thy state, to whom I am confined,
Hates this, as doth thy jealousy.
  To leave this state thou hast the strength of laws,
  Since why to love thou art so.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had she depart,
Than from the wrack, by the wrack, by the bloody batt'ring gone,
She would have remembered
My every instinct; why dost thou use
So great a force to hurt me,
To hurt myself but by thy granting?
Till I prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn,
And chide thy neglect of truth,
Making me tongue-tied, hindmost in thy speech.
  She carved thee for her seal,
  And meant thereby
  Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.

