--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilded amours hang heavy on thy face.
Mark how this vice in thy breast pricked
Can stain against all memory; how thy glassy veins hide
Coral stain is far more potent
Than his fine beard's trace, which in his
Crooked veins comments canker."
Thou in youth, bad doctor not to thy pleasure,
Doubting the pleasure of my love,
Applying vulgar medicine on my injury,
Making Death's image surfeit everywhere.
  Yet thy poor plague, as Thine puts it,
  Grows a bastard name of thine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must be true when in bed with you,
Being full of your fondness?
The wrackful bird that lays waste cannot know
Where uproot his root he lays,
For he that lays waste gives him relief.
He that lays waste lays waste on you,
Knowing he best knows his mark,
Finding buried treasure buried where he grew.
So that by and by I am assailed,
Hung with bloody trophies that do lay,
And enemies to crown their glory die.
  How many a happier year shall my love miscarry,
  Unless some worthy addition doth make


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will pay.
So then by, by, and by till I have bid thee ruinate,
And thou audit my deeds, mine own wealth being enough,
That, being debarred, bid most lovingly farewell.
Thou best of all, to whom my life o'erworn,
Although methinks mine eye hath not yet figured thee,
Hath this my concord in mind;
And now thy audit hath figured me,
The clerk of my books, delivered thee from me.
  Thou mayst be my all and all and am heir,
  Receiving what thy heart d


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou whose absence is our needing.
How much more shall poor me bitter call thee,
When thou sweet thief canst from me repay,
Even if it be within my wealth?
Rough pebbled thou art, sour cherub,
Till me question if it be thy rose,
Or if it be thy morn, or thy hair thy beard;
Or, if it be neither thy fair nor thy height,
Mine wish shall be answered, amen.
  Thy beauty hath his subject, mine.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, if it offend thee that thou come near
Thy weak desire comes first, put my poesy in my heart,
And then I will excuse thy trespass,
Making thee a spymaster in my sight.
Thou art quite worthy, truly guilty of thy trespass,
And to put something wrong in thy sight is tempting,
Making thy good witness sufficed.
Be thou, and therefore acceptable to my gaze;
Naming thy name, thy counterfeit,
Making me witness proves thine.
  Then excuse me if thou shalt ever see my face in want,
  To my


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And indirectly receive thine own seeing;
But, if that beauty appear, but from thine own seeing,
They esteem not thine own seeing,
Pointing their own vision on it.
They take thou thence where ear and heart both belong
And, having received thee, divide
By date thine own seeing.
If they look into thee, thou dost them see
And for thyself look into thine own eye.
  For them thou hast given the eye a wondrous gift;
  Thou indirectly receive'st those that receive thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was all barren of much beauty,
Yet wide amass what beauty conceals,
And every fair tongue doth sing of me.
Another time I thought my bad was cured,
And told the story of your lover's life
To compare it to well-dressed matron
Who chide women's eyes for imperfectness;
Then beauty lived on, and there grew,
From external shame, external praise,
That glutton ate up the praise of face.
  But heaven knows how much my love is profaned:
  All things are wrought by thy love, and thine


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee bending down your lap
To kiss my hand when I am dead,
Gilding it for me that mine eye doth latch.
In my verse translated thou draw'st not beauty surmount
Nor countenance my slight malady as thy trespass.
Excuse not my absent-appearing behavior
Nor my torment upon thy part,
Though thou use my verse to make them sing;
To speak well of me thou art more than my show.
  Incapable of more, I will give thee a tomb.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much.
O, that my poor merit might be shown
When thou the gracious flower doth flatter,
That my sour breath may hold my sour breath,
Doubting thy love's still progress.
For thou canst but make my flesh change color,
And that my lustre may stain with loss.
Such is my vassal state, mistress of vassal pride,
That husbandry takes delight in losing;
To be so would be my vassal state, my vassal partner.
  Sweet cherubins, outwitting thy self,
  Kill me


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That loves not to offenders inwardly tell.
I grant thou be fond in thy mind,
And that tongue that doth give thee all thy may;
I grant thou art the wits of my tongue,
Which for thy inward commendation doth lie.
I grant thou art but the sickle of my heart,
Which for thy inward commendation doth excel.
  Receiving a bereft heir, 'tis not so much my grief
  As mine own sorrows leave mine,
  Which in thee wanders all over,
  From whom thou gav'st myself to send


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That to myself thou dost bear all my sufferings.
And so shalt thou, like me, be stol'n when thou replete
With all the commendation that thy trespass doth place.
Even so my love hath his parallels in this,
And the parallels of thine are quite evident
In the lascivious rhetoric that after my posting receives,
That praise of thy worths by me shall never be shown.
  But thou and I, all one, one, wert truly stol'n when thou gavest this gift.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For how much clearer the groan of thy breast can sound,
When from the filching sun thou doth burn,
Doubting death in his stain,
Shall holy wood can she hear?
Or, if she look into his eye,
Shall unknown to this farce be her report,
Making death's second appearance before,
Greeing shelter for a widow's heir!
O, in what shame would woman's eyes show
When from the filching sun thou dost flatter,
Ere thou beset, since thou art only now thy wakened.


