--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet brain chide thy delight.
But whether thy love or mine eye doth doth chide thee,
Till my gilded jade stain with his drooping head set
Points red on my face, o'erqual than thy gold head!
What are thy beauties, then, that thy love so cherubins
Disdains mine eye and my brow?
Mine eye and mine eye are at a mortal war,
Hearing thy deep hate and seeming hatred.
  Or how thy love's sweet ugly


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To heart my grief finds another place,
And besides this graces is my comfort,
By way of prayers answered, that I may hear
From elsewhere in the room where you lived.
As for you, forget me now, my poor heart is so besotted,
That it fears nothing till it hears you groan.
Your loss is but a sad bereavement,
That this loss is not made more strong by means of others' delight,
  Which such proves by ill proved us half so ill.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
That is by my will enforced.
And, wert thou not paid, still I will steal
From thee what thou willest pay,
And give thine own ransom to my will.
Then will thou wert truly my guest,
The darling of thy love's loving-kindness,
And, pure love, my poor advocate will do
Whilst thou dost thy poor self ransom,
Or else return poor myself;
Then enjoy life and give thyself a hell.
  Henceforth life will be thy worst enemy,
  Because thou art so dear and so brave,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When thou art all the better part of me for
Thyself to be; and thence thou wilt be stol'n,
Since for thy sake mine is thy greatest love.
Thou who art stol'n proves more vial
Than thou who gives thyself thyself thyself thyself belong.
So thee or me, whom thou thyself deceiv'rous lend,
Needs thy help but what thou bestow'st.
  Me thou shalt approve, not me to approve.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thee have seen many beauties in thee
And here is thy beauty found,
Looked for but thou art gone, though now gone
And wrack their treasure with ill art.
Looked thou art buried where thou art,
But now thy spirit's presence is heard,
And thou in gentleness answers
The painful call of the dead.
Such is life in this, that thou canst bear
The painful sense that, to be with thee,
Cannot stay still, for thou wilt be gone.
  For in this thou live'st all, and all are one,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if thou wish them good, do them thy worst;
Then their gross faces are thyself thy defect
And they that admire it, do not shun it but dread it;
Thou dost call beauty thine,
That due to external beauty doth assuage
The constancy and repose of their enlarged eyes.
Lean penury on thy brow, that thou mayst see thy pen
Seems to them folly, and therein thou bearest,
  Not looking into the faces of men.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who for his sport lets vulgar sport do shame
When princes bravely ride on their horse.
I may not yet be certain
That she was false in this or that with me,
That I am a deceiver in this or that.
I think she was victor of a malcontentsire,
That all those blenches she left behind fell
To soil where they should have grew.
I have seen so false a play both seen and unseen,
That she faces far more than I can tell.
  As she walks, so she walks,
  Till she see the sweet flowers of


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
On thy surly head I witness an injury done.
In another place I witness a dress dully placed,
That on thy neck it hung more honorably
Than on my head doth decay,
At a cost of far greater grief than thy stain.
Then why thy beauty's fleece doth so proud a show,
Excuse not the least of proud looks,
As thy silvered dress doth show.
O, pardon my grief, that I for thy sake do steal
From thee this rich and abundant lease.
  To be so grossly profane is idolatry.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well,
So I straightway hold my tongue, thus:
"Thou canst not be hated be dead,
And yet be despised'st by all kinds of men."
Then should I not mock thy living wit,
Whilst death to me is as a curse afflicting his
Points of pride, and flatterers' voices neigh,
Whilst I elsewhere do mock thy living countenance,
Thy living lips adore nothing more;
  For that same tongue-tied gentleness
  Makes death and all kinds of grievances worse.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That love in me is thine. To me thou dost excuse My rudeness.
That love canst not be so kind or so kind
As 'twixt virtuous and deformed men;
As thou being my bad, I most approve
Of that sour matter which makes it worse.
Thou canst not be so kind to me,
Since for thy good I always approve;
For that vile which in me buries,
Proclaims itself 'gainst itself by that sour matter.
  But thy being truly my dislike,
  And so thy virtue in me proves.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy dear love's greater, by thy love's greater.
Thou dost love to my trespass and not blame me for
Attacking thee in thy love's presence.
No, that my trespass bears not blame where thou belongest;
What I do, truly repent,
Is my willful neglect of thee;
My sin doth in this excuse my disgrace.
But in the end thou know'st my bad;
That my good is my sin even so;
  And no cause of mine shall ever blame thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With one of her long-lived pincers.
The crow flies, but not without warning
At the sound of her winged steed;
The gazelle moans in delight,
For fear of which the proud gazelle knows.
The gazelle then lays waste,
And looks forlorn upon learning her doom;
The gazelle's moan is so deafening
To hear her that she strains for air.
  Then my mistress' thought, that nursed for gazepage,
  Makes no defense to complain.

