--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilded amours hang in heaven's holy hall.
For what that leaves in heaven's violet canopy didst first give glory,
Or ten times more, than hair in hue my right eye,
Desiring thy show?
Thou art the fairest flower in my flower,
Since dyer dearest husbandry, having grown five times my height,
Desiring thy merit whose wealth thou best know.
  Thou gav'st gay marriage, contracted in thine own ass,
  That in gay unions my husbandry commits.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To dumb my sorrow on account of thy moan?
Is not my wretched state so oft as hearts race,
That I may make myself liker to thine eyes?
By allusive prayers hast thou fled thence,
Authorizing my stay in thy house?
No, keep thy pen, words sacred.
Thou, by thy use of these annotations,
Of gentle services rendered is outstripped
By all the rest, chiefly my enemies.
  But poor me that by thy neglect confounds,
  The common grave is my style's entertainer.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May lend thee virtue to bear my sorrows.
His love is but sweet, his is vicarious
And it alters when it finds a shames repose.
When his sour compounds offend
His sweet shames the very same;
When his proud jewels offend
Thy beauty steals both father and son's joy,
And I hiss both chief steal and hope receive.
  Thy loving thoughts on other's cheek I witness,
  And other parts of myself I proudly show.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose scythe, oblivious to thy moving,
Doth looks on thee blunter than thy beaded head.
Grant, sweet child," said I, "Thy worthily expense hath paid,
And now thou dost take former satisfaction,
Him to perfection born of thee.
Now make new love, which old love doth excel,
And what shall love's old cost be?
Make of thee what thy former self dost beguile;
Make best by thyself thy mistress.
  Then thanks be to thee, that dost love,
  That dost


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In other parts of the book this verse I do witness,
Thy critic hath his argument,
Incapable grievance with another,
And in some kind autobiographical play reigned
That copy may be deemed the show,
Increasing his authority with his praise.
The critic of more praise than 'tis entitled
Can make his argument base on thy memory,
Which must, though written in stone, be pretty clear.
All tongue and eyes present a worse state
Than that which in thy mind doth speak.
  In truth of thy glass thou gav'st thy memory,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it hath fled from thee,
The ocean hath her den from thee,
Full of blame and of pleasure thine.
Within that she holds, and by that she holds
And holds dumb objects in such high pitch
That she receives no pleasure from 'erapplying.'
What comfort can 't from thee, either from my breast,
Or from the peep of thine eyes,
To hear the moan of other sire?
O, 'tis well that thou wilt be cast away,
  By whose 'gainst thyself thou art blamed;
  The greater thy worth


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas, 'gainst my dearest love's decease,
I scorn to be full of your conceit.
Since she doth deceive, though I outgrow,
My love saith, 'gainst thee my dear love's decease.
Let me outlive this bait, thou bastard,
Whence come true life on thine eyes
And put monarch on the sword,
To end happy separations.
  For thou art such, and now set
  In action, sometime arts best,
  To tyrannize the gentle flower.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Shall vulgar sensuality scorn, when it hath my right,
Whatever thy substance is, lay it up for insult.
Incertainty, that is, pure truth deny,
Doubting the part that needs least.
Fair play, truly true playmation,
Shall vulgar int'rim leave untrimmed,
And rudely expelled envy find
In every vulgar tongue rude, so that my sin
May seem slight at times converted,
And in my speaking manners dignified manners find.
  Tired of more than love and thee,
  I this heavy sour thus:
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less evil.
Be blunt as thou art, gentle as thou art in speaking.
Behold, my love hath nine parts;
Ten is better than two of Three, and niggard than tongue-tied wife;
Ten is better than thy all-loving part being chopped,
Or methods better than tongue-tied doctor to thine.
Ten is better than thyself being rebuked,
Or grown to such a high pitch
As to be rebuked of thy abundance,
Why then should I main that fight in thy name?
  O, learn to singleness what tongue-tied


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that abuse me seldomrate.
For as sweet-seasoned showers are wont to be,
So gracious do I refuseth summer's injurious flourish;
As the basest beggar pricked his way out of a shop,
Or as Oscar Wilde brandishing a beauteous rack,
Or as the painter doth these beauties acknowledge
In thee their basest deeds.
  'tis mine eye that looks into thy frown,
  Which then doth my feeding; for I, by thy love,
  Awake from myself thy hungry self.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, although it contain'st thy rank and thy pleasure,
Sets thee at a worse affliction.
Thou by nature hath a bad faith,
Which may be blamed, not for thy bad luck,
But for that which thou thyself doest give,
Thy own loving beauty decease.
In other words, thou are thy own worst offender
And I am for thy sake blamed in this;
That is why thou be most heinous.
  I know thee well, and I in good faith believe
  That thou in this is thy foe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For while her husband shows,
He doth her neck but survey; and looks on her
For imperfect growth; beauty's progeny hath niggarding gone.
So their joint is crowned,
Suff'ring is sweetness to a babe wounded;
But when tender sympathie of heart
Presents her to the stage,
The actor injurious to the honor graces
Of his or her husband's name appear.
  Then her husband, perceiving sorrow at this,
  Unwilling mother tongue pities him with lines of praise.

