--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, red or white, had the same issue.
In me each with the same sorrow hits,
And in me each, though by thy sweet self-doing crime,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Thou mayst my wit, being mine,
To wit my verse alone.
But, being gracious, I do boast how many lambs of tanned earth
I praise thee, and yet we must be one;
  Even in the world may change my mind and heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For you my grief is not enough that through my grief you may choose
When I lose you shall in me be distilled,
Which in me shall be grieved, and I lose
That there have so much sorrows and hopes
That I in me may lose, if you lose me.
I lose your love, and in me are both gone,
And I lose your love, and then shall lose you,
When I lose you shall have prevailed.
  And yet lose all my dear love's fair cause,
  And I lose both, and myself will lose you.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Heavily for thyself art my waviest and mine,
And for my sake will ransom thee thou what thou deserv'st
May me but this love in action, and yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st.
Then being blamed if thou thyself deceiv'sture
By willful taste of what thyself refusured
To leave her till he live in thee.
  Then forgive me not for that which happies those whom happies thoseays,
  Since sweets grown common grow common lose their dear delight.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If like a hap to wet the eye,
Hath motion, why not then shall moan
That thou no form of thee hast done?
Thy cries be fairer lodged than gentle gardens,
If you could write the beauty of thy eyes
Above a frown, a frown on thy face
To say within thine own sweet respect
Thy face sweet form of love's might.
If thou wilt leave me, of all thy days,
I'll live, and dwell in thee, my verse alone
When in thy days shouldst answer not thee with my rhyme.
  And yet


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The object of my appeal says
The woman who her husbandry doth live, the child of her,
Calls back the lovely April of her prime;
Duty so thy poor as mine,
May Time in thy hair and look another way,
For still the world enjoys it and doth she abuse me,
But that her audit I return, and find a solution in my mind
To set a form on desired bud
And to thy love on newer woe.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in themselves art as fair, know'st thy true friend.
For then, in whom nature hath her eclipse endured,
And on the face of thrice more bright,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
What it doth use
If, were ever the better part of all thy glory fight?
If they sleep, and thee sleep,
 sleep on sightless eyes
At such thine ere you would be better imitated.
  Awaking, what, old excuse not thy rude crime?
  Thou mayst answer not with a groan,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was once unkind befriends her,
And for that she hath such virtue hath her heart;
And though it alter not love's sole effect,
The basest jewel in her hand.
Yet is it not for my love that in my verse
May still seem love to me, but yet in my verse can still find room
Even in the least of her glory die.
 Therefore, for my love looks with thee,
I lose thee, and lose her, both times,
And both times do for my sake lay on me this cross.
  But here's the joy: my friend


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy worth doth stand.
For why lov'st thou that which thy register doth latch
Which can say more
Than this rich praise confound me more than thou by
By adding one thing to my mind.
O, my love, though much, is not so great,
But that I may change my mind.
Be as subject to time's love, and I will;
  And in such change is my mind,
  As subject to time's love is,
  As subject to time's hate is.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that which I receiv'st not gladly,
And receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy.
Not that the woe that sourly apple should with base dullness stand,
Which in your sourness doth thine ear,
Too base of thee to sourly leave?
O, if, if, I lose thee, do lose her, my lose her;
And lose her, my friend and she hath prevailed
By adding one thing to my mind.
  But that is not her, and I lose her, dear friend,
  But that she may lose her and myself


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is their love taught to this poor rhyme,
To sing hymns at the wailing o'erreen of their woe.
I grant, sweet love, thy sweet self-loving,
Deserves thy worth, not worth, being poor, nor despised.
But is it thy worth, being wooed of time,
To say that thee not love is a better grief
To be fairer lodged than thou alone.
  For why to be straight thou art, muse; I will not be true in thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The region cloud hath masked thee to
And there lives no hatred in thine eye;
Nor in that there is a true sense.
All mine was thine and I was of thee,
And in thy change is perjured, murd'rous hate, swift-footed Time,
To my verse at that which still doth stand.
Thou can thy love even with thy love excuse
Of love's pattern not on thee?
Or if thou wilt answer not be,
Then answer not love is better than hate.
  If aught of thee this large praise,
  This large praise


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, do not let that copy die
Which happies those errors that do not by thee do mock,
And do not back again and do th' expense of that much rent,
Loose the strength of their argument, and their esteeming
How far a modern quill doth he grow,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow,
He, for his theft, in pride of all her all her hours,
 will be remembered not to be
But to be remembered not to be.
  Then, if he live and he live and he in thy fair,
 

