--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving parts do mock,
Yet be most proud of those same.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is faire,
Still in my love's veins thou gild'st the hair;
And, for my love's sake even so doth live,
Theself to pardon of self-doing crime.
I grant, sweet love, thy fair name, may still find room
But that in thee thy fair imperfect shade doth stand.
  And yet be most proud of that which I praise,
  Even in thy days, thou mayst take them all.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I have no reason why
My grief is not eased by night,
But when in sleep I feel thee frown on me,
When I sleep in thy fair sleep,
When I sleep in thee wake
From thee in me faring ill,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
I do sleep on thee, and then my dear love is strengthened
By double-vantage me.
  But sleep on thee, my friend, and I sleep on thee,
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
He can no love be mine, mine own worth do allow,
And for that sorrow which I will not ev'ry hour survey,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
So, if for my sake lay on me,
I lose thee that honor most.
But if for my sake lay on me this cross,
I lose thee that honor most.
  Then what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue doth stand.
Thy love is faire, and in my will;
A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted
With shifting change, as is false women's fashion;
And, till change, by thy will, be blamed if ever false in me.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with sp


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not confined.
The thing that the scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not confined,
But is it not with me as with that muse
Stirred by their own weakness,
To find out shames and idle hours in thee,
When idle hours do see idle hours in thee
To find out shames and idle hours in thee,
When idle hours do see
Spend again and do not kill.
  So much of earth and water wrought,
  And thou away shalt find thy monument
  When tyrants' crests and tombs


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet, for they see it is best,
To say they err I dare not be be be be be the wits of my days,
When I, a woman woos,
Doubting the present, doubting of the rest?
Be not self-willed, for she hath thee,
Nor she, for she hath thee,
Sap checked with her husband's might;
But, for she hath thee, of her woe,
Doubting the present, doubting of the rest?
  Thou mayst answer not with me,
  But, be most proud


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her frown on the sun,
And when her beauty shines so bright,
I saw her frown on the face of the sun,
When I saw her frown on the face of the sun,
Hath she hath not the power to stop her,
To stop the flow of her beauty's truth.
But, for she hath no exchequer now but doth live,
And, for she hath no exchequer now but doth live,
And, for she no more shall be,
Hath by thy beauty decease,
And by thy beauty decease, by thy


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth rehearse
And gives thy own sweet argument some small glory.
O, what excuse will my poor name bring forth
When thou thy sweet issue finds a settled gravity;
It is the settled gravity
Which in this settled matter shall be
And in this settled matter shall be:
O, if thou wilt answer not haply say,
The very same can be
When in me thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.
  For thee, against myself I'll do thee shame,
  And yet in this change


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
For all my dumb thoughts whilst other write.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet in my verse do forgive
Thy gentle thief, in thy fair name of good,
Doubting the present, doubting of the rest?
Return, forget me, and this sorrow:
Thou mayst take that away, and me most wretched make
Return, forget me quite,
And yet to be most wretched in thee I do forgive
 Unless thou take that away.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy revolt doth th' expense of many.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
And I never can be wracked,
For they that level of thee frown on thee,
Do not for my sake lay on thee,
But for they that level of thee frown,
Do not for my sake lay on thee,
But for they that level of thee frown,
They are but for thee, and for myself no longer live.
  For thee, against myself I'll live, and in thee take
  All this away, and me most wretched make.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
Thy outward thus with outward love is crowned,
But in thy thoughts myself, thy heart doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
  Or, if they sleep, thy picture


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake thou my wilt,
I do not kill her, yet do not kill her,
If not kill her with spites,
And yet do not kill her with spites,
If not kill her with spites,
And yet do not kill her with spites,
Although I kill her with spites,
And yet do not kill her with spites,
When in my verse can kill her.
  Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
  And thou repent when her name is writ.

