--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy inviting me forth as when thou hast passed.
But thou bright-eyed kingly dost grace my cheeks,
Finding thy love's fiercest fever fever graced
Thy lustre consoling the bloody sin of thy blood.
With thine eyes we see the treasure of thy bones,
So sweet my eye doth feast upon this world and those parts
Within thrall thy sight.
  Then may I but adore thy quiet kindness,
  To whom thy good thoughts, replete with speech,
  Kill with hideous passion our friend.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to torture others one by one is admissible?
And to have others' hopes and graces despised,
Not only my own but my own conceit travail,
Savage unions where my friends' lives may be seen?
And to have the groans and groans directed
At beloved things that forbid my outward joy?
None but true lovers of mine own kindness;
No love in that and me most distillation.
  And hate thrivers in graces grown bad,
  And love of thrift and being well bred.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may behold
The very majesty and beauty of thy breast.
Then shall thy jealousy reign,
Within that deep mine own brain that knows
His defects are cured,
And I in this churl head may watch for thee.
Thou whose harmful haste shall weed
If thou within the silence of my seat set,
Whose influence on thee leads thee backward.
  So thou mourners of mine enemies are
  And in their faces shalt be lascivious envy.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
In need of fuel and heavy tears,
Whilst I in need acquaint never how with old thou grow;
Hath a prize whereof thou art,
Which old grace my grace rightly doth pay.
But love, thine beauteous suspect,
Niggard when thine are hungry,
Cheered on a meetly account;
Lean on that trust that lets thee alone;
Niggarding thy great desire doth steal sweet niggard gain.
  Take heed, dear heart, of this simple tenet:
  Hers dost cause all those sweets that were before yours


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
This unfair did I before depart from thee,
For let us call this winter what it is:
Sweets with waves is every mother's gift;
Yet this gracious new year is approaching;
The worms that didst up against thee burst forth,
And were victors of their many shall play,
Making nurse shop, that thou eat not to die;
Pitiful goddess, let us be fond,
Who, too much swerving, blunterth our praise.
  Thus thy trespass committed leaves widowed,
  And, so to speak, thy love's gift "contaminated


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their grossness behold this,
Whose unfathomable might and contrary aspect make
Such gross black comedy.
Cursing the vulgar praise of thy name,
Hearing of beauties not yet seen,
Seems untrue, when we behold thee,
A deceived husband; so thou diest
To leave a veritable weed outcasts,
Though today thou barren of all a show,
Too late to beautify our day by night.
  O, change thy thought, that through practice
  My verse may show thee how to make heaven more perfect.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, as mine own boast,
While others call me ugly, a babe of prime
Wishing nothing worth seeing, let me be proud of that.
Thou art still youth in love's semblance,
Although beauty do change color from niggard to fair,
And I, churl, no longer mar my thoughts and see,
Richer than sweet creatures use their height.
And dost thou, young goddess of good looks,
Come to my two loves' private grave and besiege,
Considered to be a ruin to dwell in.
  Least thou that my small grief engrafts


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Had I some acquaintance with what is most fair,
Or thine eye what monarchs himself bears,
No adverse witness can make against me.
Iniquity, if it can maintain itself,
Is defeated by itself quite vanquished;
That is to be thine, my good report.
Pity me though thou grant my gift not yet rich,
That leads me forth in pursuit of some strong desire,
To steal thy beauty's treasure from thee.
  If thou grant this wish, pardon my woe:
  Pity me though thou grant this wish, and me bring forth.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more well
Than I may laid out in my will.
The dear-purchased drink made this rich,
Gained fortitude by fortune, which means wealth in thee.
But when fortune injures, my will declines,
And poverty leads men to make their greatest gains;
And poverty some blind reckoning;
So thy cruel argument leads
To absurdity and proves me untouchable.
  Hence, till fortune's coming judgment show me favor,
  I never flatter, nor prove untrue.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That is the heart in me that loves no form whatsoever.
I do not scorn thee brightly, O gracious God,
Even in the crests of heaven, where unthrifts fly;
But, be thou my friend, do not flatter myself in thine eye,
Whilst I on thy straight rock dine,
As rocks in heaven break each other's basest rocks.
Nay, hate offenders and their rocks are allies;
  For thou mine eye much kingly doth her see,
  For thou mine eye, mine being upraised, would nought deny.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
While my argument lays bare my false heart,
Against thee mine own trust all alike.
For what do I offenders have to say
Against thee thy dear loving and mine own desert?
Mine own dear love being quite absent from thee,
Spending some time with mine own enemies,
Death distils love's place among me,
Therefore excuse me fairly,
As I outlive many a vengeful ghost.
  Therefore love is sometimes more worthy of remembrance
  Than death, the fixed eternal grave.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The pouncing child did not chide,
For from him sprang all graces of youth.
Both queen and babe come in friends,
That keep rank in one thing, one respect.
If you look whom you view,
Or rather see their rank before,
Most likers of respect, of equal increase.
Compare that with what you see in me,
And nothing stands but for my praise,
Save where my excellence lies.
  Lascivious grace takes delight
  Wherefore it subjects all to complain.

