--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles strange.
Thou dost love my bad, and my good allow,
Evening my worst, to triumph;
If that my rose looks too fair,
My frown lines and wrinkles strange.
If thy rose looks fairer wept thou art,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles fairer wept be.
If thou thy lips were brass, or hammered steel,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles more bright
Than those painted on thy face.
  Yet beauteous I strive, knowing thy good faith,
  To know thy worth and true esteem


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those friends whose dear love hath my woe?
O, if, when your friend hath committed suicide,
The worst was this:
My friend, when he committed suicide,
Cannot boast how much he hath done;
He can boast how much better a house heaped with his wealth
Will be if he could his friend boast;
And he can boast how much better a mansion heaped with his wealth
Will be.
  For to his friend's delight I engraft new love
  And he gives it to my grief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Now with my amiss,
Thy love hath settled, and I am shamed
By that which thou dost steal; so shall others' eyes,
Whilst mine own bright eyes are famished for that which to thee doth stay.
For thy fair flower doth flatter than the eye of heaven,
And thy dear love hath in this settled flower grown.
  So shall others' gardens, yellowed with their age,
  Kill weeds with weeds, and sweet flowers with flowers.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which annoy me even more than thou art
When thou art all the better part of me?
Thou art thy foe, and I am shamed
By that which I think thou art.
More than enough is my love to call thee virtuous,
Losing all my loves, thy sweet self so destroys.
If that be error, thy love shall never be so called
That myself lose all thy loves, thy sweet self so destroys.
  But if that be error, thy love shall never be so called
  That in losing all thy loves shalt win all my love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, much too short,
For nimble thought, much too strong, will steal thy stick;
For bending all policy, thou art much too short to trust
To trust those jacks that nimble think can jump both sea and land.
If thou art all the better part of me,
Thou art much too fair to trust those jacks that nimble think can jump both sea and land.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee,
  My greatest grief lies onward and my gentle verse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for their part, are they as the greeing of the ground,
Bearing the strong hand of heaven above,
Till thy bending glass shall play
And make the Earth devour her own sweet brood;
For thy sweet self thou art too dear for thy glass to hold,
For he that cherubins th' inviting time doth steal thee.
  To give away thy treasure thou art forced to give;
  And he that drinks thee up must be clean.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Since truth is but the seemly raiment of my heart.
If this be error, what blame is there left
Which alters not truth with his alteration,
Truth alters not with his stick,
But makes his stick better used
Than the hand that alters not with his change.
If this be error, what blame is there left
Which alters not with his alteration,
But makes his stick better used
Than those dumb presagers that wear his stick to torture.
  To him I witness call fools,
  Which for their virtue dare not show their rank.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou art blamed shall be thy chief desire,
And my abuses shall be measured by thy deeds alone.
Thou art blamed shall be thy chief desire,
And my abuses shall be measured not by thy deeds alone.
By this I am assailed, not by thy lameness but by the world.
How far a modern quill doth to go
To make of an antique pen?
  O, that thou mayst answer "This poet lies."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives this, and this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor lips that my heart doth latch;
For why dost thou then convert?
Thou art thy mother's glass, and my tongue doth tell
Thy beauty hath no name, no holy bower,
But is profaned, if not lives in a vulgar tongue.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and my tongue doth tell
How to make one twain of thine.
  Then my mother's glass shows thee how to make one twain of thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy state with the barren bosom's shop,
And then thy dear merit compare
With mine own desert, that thy state may keep.
The state, sovereign over thy heart,
Crawls to maturity, wherefore doth Nature resort
To thine own desert, to give false a better report.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
Beggared of thy self to blush compare,
And by thy state being crowned mayst prove thee.
  For thy blush thus shall be thy defense,
  Since thy state, sovereign over thee, shall outlive long


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Another time the captain's son
Lose all control of his thunder and lightning,
And from above fell his prey,
Pitiful but unprovident mother;
A third time the captain's son
Lose all and more by day,
And by night doth nightly steal his sweetance,
From his wakened state, where abundance lies.
Yet this thy chief grief forbear,
And thou all alone shalt find
Those children nursed, delivered from thy state,
  Which delivered from thy state's soil thou must leave ere long.

