--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all hues in their woe,
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of ill deeds.
To say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of injury.
  In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
  And thence this slander as I think proceeds.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
And for that I have scorned offenders thought
To torture him for that which I do forgive,
Although I have scorned offenders' eyes
And given them thyself pardon of injury.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is better than my crime,
And in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
And, for my sake even so doth this plea commence
To prove a very woe;
  And, for thy sake even so doth this plea commence.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He can no love be mine, nor I to thee will;
Therefore, unless he can write the beauty of his eyes
And in fresh numbers number all his graces,
The age to come would say "This poet lies;
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces."
So should my papers, yellowed with their age,
Be scorned, like to his rude truth,
And your true rights be termed a poet's rage
And stretched meter of an antique song.
  But were some child of yours alive that time,
  You should live twice--in


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue doth stand.
Thy face hath her, the master mistress of her pleasure,
Yet well thou know'st I can set a form upon thee
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
That may be false in my seeing,
When I may see thee frown on my defects more nearly,
Thy face hath her, the strength of laws,
And I in her hath her, the strength of laws.
  But, for thy sake, myself, thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
  For she hath thee to trust those errors


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The region and I to thee subscribes
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
And my soul's thought, all in my content,
Deserves thy worth in me but a little moment,
To wait for thy sake to hear.
But that I have scorned all
And do not love to thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
  Then, if for my sake lay on thee this cross,
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see their eyes are windows to my sight.
The eyes are windows to my sight,
And for they see their souls in their form form form form form form
Him in their gazing spent,
Which for they see their beauty indirectly,
They see the eyes of Nature store,
Which, for they see their windows much clearer,
Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
But, for they see, they are windows to my sightless eyes.
  And, for they see, they are bright days,
  And, for they see thee frown on their


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the deeds of youth,
Then look I death my days should expiate.
For then, if for my love receivest by thee,
I cannot blame her for my sake lay,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own sweet a double majesty.
But, for thy sake of words respect, I will excuse ye:
Thine eyes are windows to my breast
And in thy creation are windows to see thee.
For why should I not say so, to thee,
When I may give thee such sort of praise,
That I may give
When thou thy praise is all my praise.
  Then, if some say thee untrue,
  Then, be blamed if thou thyself dost lie.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet beloved name of many, seeming less;
But that thou mayst true sorrow
Give warning to the world that I am shamed by
Whate'er thou thy thoughts or thy deeds must not be shown,
To be praised of worth and what worth doth appear.
Thou mayst my slight muse in manners
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
  Then, if he can afford
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'ring bark, every wand'ring bark,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'ring bark, every wand'ring bark,
And every tongue that tells the story
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
  And all things turns to fair that eyes can see.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
But what of thee thy inward love doth share,
That in thy inward love may still find room
In thy inward love's form form in my verse
From thy inward love of heart, to love of heart,
To love that well which in thy inward love doth share.
  Then, if for my sin thou thy love rece


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and waste;
Nor do not with my hours and waste;
Nor do with my hours and waste;
Nor do with my hours and waste;
Nor do with my hours and waste;
Nor do with my hours and waste;
Nor do with my hours and waste;
Till each to razed oblivion yield his part
Of thee, of me, to thee did give
That poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As

