--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy looks with me strangely.
Thine eyes I view in thee
Are as thy sweet self grow'st,
Which, converted from the thing it was,
Cannot blush till thou get a better look.
Thou that art now thy chief desire,
A jewel which thy loverry bars.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not. Thy great desire
Cannot blush till thou get a better look.
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy grief give physic to mine eye;
Neither can thy grief give physic to mine eye.
Neither can thy shame give physic to mine eye;
Neither can thy grief give physic to me.
Neither can thy shame give physic to mine eye;
Neither can thy grief give physic to me.
  For thee, against myself I am ill,
  And thou against myself I am cured.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
Nor shaken with loss of pride.
For what benefit can mine own desert do,
When others' leases are not so bad?
Then what can mine own desert do with mine own desert,
When others' leases are so bad?
Then what can mine own desert do with mine own desert,
When others' leases are so bad?
Then what can mine own desert do with mine own desert,
When others' leases are so bad?
  His desert is so great, that he can afford
  To leave for nothing what others' leases are.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee shall stay,
Even so that my dear love may be broken.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my pleasure a limit past my praise.
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee shall stay,
Even so that my love may be renewed.
Thou art as tyrannous, though fairer we our manners,
As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel.
  To thee I honor thy deeds,
  And thou, to thyself I honor all thy wrong.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and only herald
Within that wide world canst thou send
To that sweet ornament which truth doth give.
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow,
Or ten times thy worth, being ten times happier than thou art.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and only herald
Within that wide world canst keep thee as a tomb
From Time's injurious hand.
  Then give me thine own


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies, and that it hath no name;
They know that it hath in thy blood a holy majesty.
They know that it hath in thy heart a holy dignity;
They know that it hath in thy heart a holy dignity.
They know that it hath in thy heart a holy sense,
And they know that it hath in thy heart a holy sense.
They know that it hath in thy heart a holy sense,
And they know that it hath in thy heart a holy sense.
  And, to behold it, I witness to thy good report.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which time and place of thy heart
Are suspecting her of injury.
If thou wilt, thou art blamed shalt be
And put a curse upon my love's legacy.
Thou shalt hap to thy heart's content
And heavily from thy heart's content kill
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame
Nor thy sour leisure excuse my jollity.
  She may be false in this, that thou art blamed shalt hap to thine.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou mayst my bad, thy good allow?
Thou art all my bad, and my good allow?
Be thou the tenth bad, ten times worse than thou art
In one of thine ten times.
Ten times thy bad is better than high birth,
Thou art ten times worse than high birth,
And high birth leads to bad health.
  And high birth leads to bad health,
  And high birth leads to good health.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why write I still all silent when thou my song
Strikes me dead?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than when rhymers invocate;
And why do I haste me thence?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than when rhymers invocate;
And why do I haste me thence?
  Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee doth my verse dwell.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
And, all in me, they gave but one thing;
That due of many now is thine alone.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
  And, all in me, they gave but one thing;
  Their images were thine and th


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou dost love my bad, that thy good report mayst prove
To me unfair, though not so thy bad reportst prove.
Thou dost love my bad, that thy good report mayst prove
To me thrice adieu nought;
And that thy good report mayst prove thee virtuous.
For why should I dare to boast how I do love thee?
  Thy good report, in losing me,
  Shall profit thee and much enrich thy story.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if ever that creature which thou dost break
Returned from the brood, and straight grown,
That her husbandry might unused stay
From the fierce jaws of the world, where he wouldst bear
Even the withering of a lamb.
But thou, thy husbandry, that impregnable wall
Which bars the way to the store
Which to thy sweet self doth lie,
To make the world away.
  Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
  Or gluttoning on all, or all away.

