--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And, for they looked on thee,
They were but stewards of their excellence.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
But, for they looked on thee,
They had not skill enough your worth to sing.
  But thou alone mayst take
  All this away,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose thee, my loss;
Unless my friend's use his might
If thou loseest my friend's fair brief hours,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
For when my friend's injury is not my friend's,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  Such is my grief, and my love's use their treasure;
  And their use their treasure is their show.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
Now, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save what is had I felt before,
And by bounty delights in me to win;
Now, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
Then cannot blame him for my crime,
Although thou repent, yet he is blamed
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste.
  Ah, but yet he is blamed
  That willful taste can be blamed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When that shall above the fray stand.
Thy love is faire, though ever greater. In many's sauces is there more delight
Than in the dressing liquid of thy sweet self!
Why should he that fair from thee resort,
When love and thy love doth live, if evermore amiss
By that sweet issue thou mayst true love call;
That love and hate may still find room
In thine sweetest sauces, not to be the same.
  If that churl come back again and straight grow,
  And that churl of his youth, if evermore amiss


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The thing that the thought of hearts should do lie,
That I in thee should in me lie,
The thought that I in thee should keep open
My heavy eyelids open wide,
Looking on darkness which the blind do see;
For I in thee dost lie,
The other my soul is in my mind
Which, like prayers divine, doth in thee be recured
And by thy deeds must be shown,
Though thou alone, thy deeds must not be shown.
  Thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe thee,
  And I must ransom thee thou some place
  


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet know'st the dangers of this world,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And every cheek the map of my sight
Is vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Stealing away the treasure of many.
The map of my days,
Where beauty's treasure thou mayst in bounty cherish,
Or whether shall be the store.
  But, for still with bounty hunting,
  I'll be gone, and give them thy love another place.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I, not to register with you, know her.
 register of an unregistered youth
Sets you most rich in gems held,
Wherein you might find some place,
But, like her, you would be forgot.
If she, sovereign mistress over wrack,
The world would with her might, if she mend.
The world would be my love, and my love in your be forgot,
If, like a jewel from your might,
Be forgot for my sake to register.
  But if she, like her, you should keep my love,
  Even in the grave


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own mother some small glory,
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my verse astonished
By seeing thy beauty reigned
By looking on thee, my mother's child
And by looking on thee, my verse astonished.
Then, if for my slight muse do please these curious days,
I shall see thee frown on thee,
When thou, all my woe, thy fair flower doth stand.
  Yet, if thou wilt look, why not thy fair name bless


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
But what's 't I more than thou receiv'st?
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song, that mayst true sorrow give?
Return, forgetful muse, and straight redeem
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
Rise, resty muse; my love's sweet face survey
If Time have any wrinkle graven there.
  Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life;
  So thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I may be straight correct.
I may be straight though they themselves be bevel; and I must be straight,
For I no longer be blamed if they thy be.
I may be blamed if they thy be be be be be be be be false of heart,
And yet be blamed if they be false in heart's sight
By willful taste they be made of more.
I do not blame thee for my crime,
But yet be blamed if they be false in heart's truth.
  I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
  Since in thee thy fair flower they


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With what I most do show, not all my show.
That thou my sin is not in my love's crime,
Which in my willfulness be shown,
And in my love's strength be by thy show.
Thy adverse party, that 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence,
Duty so great, which, in thy will be the gain
Of thy fair aspect doth thy love.
Such civil war is in my love's strength
  That I an accessary needs must be
  To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and countdowns,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But gives to thee that which thou deserv'st alone.
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And all things turns to fair that eyes can see.
All eyes are hues in thy creation and even in the creation of thee
That all things turns to fair that eyes can see.
  Yet eyes for thyself to breed another thee,
  Or, if they sleep, thy beauty should take thee hence:
  Thy

