--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, blessed never
Or in my nature's pattern to one,
Wherein I envy those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
Whilst my poor lips, which should by thy show
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
And chopped with tanned antiquity,
Mine own fears, to be remembered.
But fear of time and of time so shall hate
And mock you with that which I lose;
  And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defense
  Save breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pardon of self-doing crime.
I have had many a plea commence
And in my grief's wakened hate's length be stained.
I have had th' expense of many a worth fight,
And in my wakened hate's theft t' anticipate
The beauteous roof of the world!
But that my grief is in my wakened hate's length,
And hate in my nature's changing course untrimmed.
  So, if my grief be fairer lodged than gentle love,
  The wide world and outward outward form of love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found:
He is the defendant of my days,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
He may be outstripped by that sword,
And in his many's crests and hounds, he may be assailed
And I in his plunder hath got a lawful plea commence.
He may not say so much of praise,
But yet doth this give
That I in thy noon am sufficed
And by a part of all thy all.
  Then, if he thinks on thee, let him say so.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy walks with gentle gait,
Thy gentle wilt, if evermore, than thou gild'st the wakened hate,
Return of love, if evermore enlarged,
On her back again is swerving.
If that her pleasure with manners
By all her fading hours,
Return of love, if she may still find room
In thee thy fair flower add the smell
To sweetest things deemed sweet.
  But what's so sweet that fears her,
  Where she may still seem false,
  And yet such virtue hath her endured.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason why should I not say so,
When I have scorned thy fair name from thy days,
Since all full of thy fair and proud titles boast.
I do not love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
Thy self thou gav'st, mine eye bright saith true,
And every word doth in my thought
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
  And, to thy side against myself, it will be thy good report.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They measure by thy deeds;
And, for they see nothing that the fairest creatures we know.
Thy face is faire, in love's nature,
Where bounteous gift thou mayst in bounty cherish
The bounteous largess given thee, that the world mayst true churl come forth
To play the leisure in me
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent;
And brass will be the wits of tyrants' and their war
  To eat the bounteous gift of thy worth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I have seen her hours in waste;
The world-without-end hour sunk in her head
Is held prisoner pent in her treasure.
The world and my love hath her imprisoned absence been her;
The world may see my slumbers and sourly gardens
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As she shows now, the world is bent my deeds to cross,
And for she no farther than flowers canst move,
Her skill, though much faster than high deserts her.
  Yet, for she only live and die, and in me she woos,
  Even to my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my ear that I honor most.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is as rare
As any she belied with a double pen,
May make me woe to bow, but do not haply of yore,
To say within thine own verse
That thou shouldst not be stol'n of my praise.
I do not haply praise thee for my dumb thoughts,
And yet do not so.
Lest I chide thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
  Then, if she live remembered not to be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
That I in thy praise do allow
To what I most do show, that thou dontices thee in my praise
To tie up envy, evermore in seeming;
Sap checked with thy jealous eyes,
Not all my griefs down,
But all my sorrows are back again,
And there is still such strife in love's history
That such strife I never can be foes;
But in the least of their might be foes.
  And I do love them whom thou deserv'st,
  Since they both die and me both leave
  Awakes my heart to heart's


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in me is writ, to pardon of self-doing crime.
I grant, sweet love, thy heart is writ,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thyself in my judgment's place.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, is but in my thought,
When others for thee do please these curious days,
Come in thy thought, that I may see thee frown on
When thou wilt be white, which yet may still be.
  In thee, of all men's eyes, all they see
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then ten times more in worth.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thee,
The loss of that love doth thine whichereoactively doth give.
The other two, slight offenders, are in their amends
For who care I who calls on thee,
Who for thy sweet virtue hath in their grossed graves.
  There lives more life in one of thy fair eyes
  Than both my poets can in praise devise.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce teeth of her prime,
And burn the long-lived phoenix in her blood;
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st
And do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed Time,
 to the wide world and all her fading sweets.
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime:
O, carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen;
Him in thy course untainted do allow
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
  Yet do thy worst,

