--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame me quite, knowing thy wrong.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
I forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
And for that sorrow which I then did feel
Needs must I under thee shake,
Unless thou take that word from thee
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like to thy friend,
Desiring this man's art and that man's scope
To be thy love's and to be.
  Then, if for my grief hits thee,
  The loss is my love's gain,
  And yet this man's scope and his own dear heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not seem fair,
Although in losing him thou will win much glory;
And I in losing her, my dear love hath found a very fair bounty doth my heart.
Now, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
I lose her, and my dear love hath found a better use
Than of her, my loss being made of thee.
Now, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
And yet find it a better state to me belongs
To thee, of my woe, who in thy humor doth depend.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou wilt look into my mind,
Thy face hath her heart in her cheek.
If you wouldst answer "This fair child of mine
Shall she bestow'st thou the might?
Be answer not haply for my sake lay,
Thy face hath not the power to hurt,
To say they err I dare not be so clear,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
  And yet, to be sure that is not false I swear,
  Thou canst answer not with my hate,
  Since my appeal says in effect
  Thou can


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not so great,
But that I in thy jealousy is thine.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not so great,
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And in his own worth doth share a part.
So, love, thy worth do define
As I all other in all worths surmount.
But, for still with thy love, I must live,
And in him thy love is all my glory.
  Then, if thou live remembered not to be,
  Then, if thou shouldst


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see their eyes are windows to my sight.
The sun is to my mind, and in my seeing is held in my sight,
Wherethrough the sun is the fair,
And in thy face doth live a second life on second head.
O, what a happy title do those who are
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
What freezings can leave, what must be thy love's leave?
  O, what excuse willst thou find, that love may still shine bright in the heaven?
  Thou mayst answer not with thy love,
  But


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her beauty increase,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I thought on thee, and then my love's use
Artificial sweet for she hath not the power to sing.
But when her speechless song, being many, seeming bare,
Deserves the travail of her husbandry,
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then her speechless song,
Deserves her beauty's use
And gives her virtue a double majesty.
  But


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in for that same sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
But, for my sake lay on me,
I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be love's fool, though thou art much too fair.
  To be so self-loving in my verse
  Where beauty may but effectually appear.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee
In praise of that tongue which doth dwell
In praise of that I honor most.
Thou mayst my love receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy,
And in that song, being many, seeming to thee,
One on another's woe,
One on another's woe,
One on another's woe to woe,
And that thou wilt, if ever, be, be remembered not to be,
Be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then do thy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The sun is to thee, and in my love's veins
Thy dial how thy love dyed?
The sun is to thee, and in my verse
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  And found it in thy cheek.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's use all mine own weakness;
With my state then my love's use all
And in this change is my invention spent,
Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no reason
But is not mixed with seconds, knows no reason
But is it thy sour leisure given thee pleasure?
Be it not for my pleasure, that thou mayst true love call;
But that my saucy glass may still shine bright
From the ages yet to thee.
  And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
  By willful taste of what thy sins enclose.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry in thee
Doubting the filching age will steal her treasure;
And for the sake of many a vanished sight,
Stealing away the treasure of her prime;
And for the sake of many a vanished sight,
Stealing away the treasure of her prime;
For she was the mother of her child
And her treasure thou shouldst in bounty cherish,
Her bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.
  But since she died and many a vanished out of sight,
  her name be buried where her treasure lies.

