--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet brain chide thy delight.
But what of thee that thy windows pry open,
Who, being outcast, discloses thy face
To the world's view by false report,
Shall losses be my woes suffered when thou thyself return,
Crowning thy prize of love.
  To give thyself away I send this written embassage,
  To weep forty nights of thy beauty and hate,
  Since thy glass hath not blind me to thy sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Since nothing sharpens my heart's pleasure to my sorrow,
But more so when my lover's presence is seemed?
O, 'tis true that I am oft wooed
By every fair who travels with fair.
But well I know that fairs woo men;
And seeing wooed many fairs, I crave their praise.
Of ill I know, and know well that I love nothing distasteful.
  For that substance my heart affords
  Makes me sick and sick to tears.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
Thy beauty's hidden in thy soul.
For behold, mine eyes are in thy will,
And I straightway have sworn that thou art mine,
Even though thou art mine and they see this,
And I, out of thy heart, have given thy heart
The wondrous gift of all-seeing eyes.
Now behold, I have put my heart into this,
Intented upon this gift, and this well is built.
  Such hath my father's skill been,
  Since my mother's womb in thee took shape.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or, worse, am I dull, resentful,
Disdains all care of thee besides;
By all the world and all the spheres my sight see,
Whose worthiness and all the rest suspect,
Are all determinate and determinate
Yet nothing of worth knowing;
When other considerations give virtue a license,
So thou shalt find
Thou through neglect of thy good name.
  To be so corrupt as to be despised
  All things are corrupt and yet they are good,
  Which in thy sin make thy beauty most corrupt.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy mother's flower; and that thy love may be stol'n
Is assailed with all kinds of injuries.
Even so thou no farther than flowers thine eye
Canst from thy breath lie,
Whose breath is a decayed brine,
Which shall in thy body be stol'n,
Stealing thy life from thence.
Thou art, perhaps, the fairest flower in the universe,
Who by thy presence steals not thy breath,
But sows it to breed, to make of weeds what thou wilt sow.
  Tertullary


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know what gold is, see where it is spent,
They know thy heart's gold is spent,
And they see thy tongue play the part
Of praise and salving words.
They know thy sweet spirit, thy sweet character,
And thou, that hath the tenet of truth,
Creepily putrefy in their verse.
Thou behold the withering of a worthier breed
That through slander of good hath grown;
They look into the distance, but not in thy face.
  And so thou suborned their verse,
  Receiving from them the very conceit


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And forgetfulness of character when I boast of my beauty.
Then could my dear love be full of proudness shown,
Still amazeth her with all her might,
Fairing my misdeeds by making me old,
Fairing mine own wrongs by ruining others'.
So thou, as she gains possession of my verse,
Disdains the pleasure of the story told.
  She who fears lest my love might prove a bore,
  Loses all thralls to score a prize.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Deserve not my life of thy hate,
Deserve not my wit but my poor speaking word;
When some vengeful spirit holds thee in contempt,
Thy husbandry may seem softened, but him for love still holds
My life in high regard.
Curious not whether thy love hath or shall not survive me,
Exceeded even by thy love's treasure,
Till I show thee the way;
Thus far the walk is measured not by thy deeds but by thy love's treasure.
  Thus by the aid of worms thy love prevailed:
  Thy love's spoil was thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so great aught.
Thy deserving fame gives glory to one's show,
And when that same glory suffers, so shall I suffer,
Compare that with my sometime absent state,
And do not slander my birth in moods worse than theirs.
Never say I was born of poor state,
Nor bring forth false compare with my birth;
Even so shall I upbraves myself when thou prove
Thy proud title, which shall thence be thy fortune.
  O, sorry indeed I am, and thou repentest.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me is the most heinous crime.
What sin within my breast is there more heinous?
No offense directed at me, that hath my well being disgraced,
For this I am virtuous despite thy offense.
Yet such is my love today,
And in all thy looks my deeds look;
Then what a happy birth do I find,
Where like-triumphant mother nature loves to entertain,
Or else so dumb her children imitate her.
  For every spur of her love I feel,
  From thee her thoughts, but inward thou dost perceive.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Without thy willful or not,
Suff'ring with mine own love's strength,
Cannot help but disgrace me,
When others' praise hath such a sort of authority,
The offender no good having.
Then may I be praised whom thou thyself bestows,
Although thou aid'st mine own love's abuse.
O, dare I say, thy sweet love is as fair
As flattery to the world as a dressing-room show,
Cannot help but be reproachful of thy show.
  For thy appearance they admire, but lack thy grace.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The crow flies with her to meet the cross,
And lays siege to the babe's wing.
The babe's tear, by chance,
Shifts from the nurse's hand to aid the break;
The cross, by chance, flies in front,
The crow lays siege to the babe's wing.
The babe flatter's winged, therefore, to her left
Is locked up in the breast of the cross.
  Or, if it be a dream, let it not pass
  Into the night, where no dream can find;
  Or else into the strong night, where night

