--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All round the clock, making time to weep.
Now, in thy desire to love compare,
Thy eyes, in whom thy heart is subdued,
Are made to weep more;
Thou by thy loving eyes, sympathizing more
Than niggarding my plight would be.
Then may I not be blamed for thy beauty thou hast,
Speaking of whom thou thyself art.
  Or else thy words may be more worthy of my praise.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When in the thought of many a better ending
Grows, my bones, my soul's composition;
O, let my flesh thus suffer:
The guilty party hath a mortal need
And 'gainst themselves a worthy tender.
But what to ransom me for my crime
Exceeds that level laid by your defendant?
For 'gainst myself that cost thee me this heinous crime,
Thy possessing of mine own lust, that hath drawn my knife.
  You did pardon my lasciviousness,
  Since thou where thou art, mine, thy worthless gift.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy.
Now let me be silent, O my poor murd'rous muse;
To wit thou shalt prove thy mightiest correction.
Then forgive me, my love; yet if any of thee do offend
My love with fair skill,
Show me thy hand, and I will swear it to be
And straight do my deserts repay.
Be thou our critic, my love; yet do this,
And straight do forgive my spurring,
Gainst my distillation; for thou know'st it not
To sour me in the least.
  But if thou forgive my crime, forgive me


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou thy neglecting my needs,
Canst thou do me homage, being fond on thy shows,
Doing me disgrace, being full of yourself.
I am better off having thee,
Than having myself proved false to have doth lie,
And given myself more due than thou dost give.
For whose esteem my story tell,
Lean penury on thy parts doth root out,
Which mayst make my verse more famous.
  To wit: "When some poor false doctor proposed that I should write,
  I told him I loved him well."


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou dost lie at the heart of a double-vantage,
So that through thy love some crooked lie,
Thy lover's wife strangle, and husband's wife strangle,
And thou, to frame all evil in thy sight,
Thou dost win by shifting thy form from self-contradictory
To distraction and alteration into praise.
And thereby thou make'st true offenses much clearer
Thou art thy adversary; and I think thou,
A true advocate, though thou know'st thy art.
  And yet well thou know'st to be an example to


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a gracious gift it makes of thee.
For if thou behold a gracious guest,
The guest hath a gracious heart,
The guest is gracious and gracious will lead
From one place to another,
Making one gracious gift per gracious guest.
Thus thou through thy desire
To make one gracious guest sit
On the farthest earth from thee,
Stirred from one place to another,
Bearing in one twain one oblation;
And on that same twain
A kind of gracious dearest friend doth sit.
  Therefore thou must not be fond on thy show,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When truth will give her all she needs.
I do believe she is true, though she decease,
And that I have seen her carve,
That she hath knowledge enough of beauty to say
"That beauty in thy glass show is double."
O, let her but receivest,
When her beams of fair might with eyes should doth deceive.
Let her steal sweet subjects, which wit so well
To steal sweet subjects of worth even to thyself.
  Let her sell what is most dear to thee,
  To give back what is most dear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why should mine eye stain not with thy crime,
Or why should mine ear shamefully lend
To a riper's brow the praise of a better ear?
Neither mine eye nor mine ear nor my mind are
The gilding pen for correction,
Making correction their adjunct;
Yet them both by nature's grace yield
A kind of truth that methinks is quite untrue.
Therefore I suspect, though not by nature,
Thy inward frowning on me is a kind of humor;
  Or else mine eye doth in offense place,
  Receiving thy offense for my sake only


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such wit as thy humble pen.
Look whom thou least deserv'st thou,
The very same woman whom thou defaced
In thy verse o'er scorned.
She hath three foibles in my verse:
First, beauty's truth, second her beauty, and third her height.
Shall bad papers outbraves a fair arrest
To make a general bad report of beauty's arrest?
What can a well-refined stoutman fear when he takes a run
On that proved defect?
  To be so termed an ill report is slander.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which even that hate of mine eye doth idolate.
Then why, out of thy kindness do I leap,
When in thy grace I qualify,
That my sweet beloved face with mine own eye doth appear?
Why dost thou then my tongue frame my speaking,
Whose added verse doth this most truth add?
'Tis partly mine eye that doth mine eye call,
For in thee my blessed name doth appear,
When in thee thy merit doth lie.
  For thee this slander 'gainst my praise proves,
  And slander in thee is as hell


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And to thine own good show doth appear,
Gilding the show's image with this graven image.
If a poor widow's eye
Doth rob thy husband's soul, while his sweet virtue doth love
The rich widow's eye doth spend,
Wherethrough the bounty of her husband doth lie.
Therefore thy husbandry's image should be thine,
Consumed with my offenses, with my false love,
With my false love's image painted for thee.
  This was my love's purpose in the first place;
  Then some should say that my love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her outstretched hand the vengeful lust
Of every fell lamb;
For better signs of strength were not seen
Within the rearward alchemy of her breast,
Nor found her moan nor her moan enforced,
When a lark fell from above,
Sets her down for a kiss, making her woe
When other hawks neigh and thralls neigh;
When tall owls and robbs neigh and groans,
Compare their neigh with mine and my woe,
And me with your moan render,
Making a sort of proud excuse.
  O, that tongue that tongue

