--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their woe, the woe of the day;
And for they looked on thee, and I joy;
Yet in hue all their griefs
And I, the sad slave, have no leisure taken
To leave poor me thou leisure.
Then, if they sleep, my wilt leave me,
When they sleep, in their sleep,
I see thee frown on the world,
When they sleep their eyes are full of their woe.
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
And for that sorrow which I then did feel
Needs must I under truest bars to thrust,
And in my love's strength seem to decay,
And I lose both twain and I lose both twain,
And both seem woe to me in this verse
When I lose both twain in my verse,
  And both seem woe to me in this verse
  And both seem woe to me in this verse
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not pay.
He may but mend when in me thou thy fair deeds do deeds must be rebuked,
And I by him forsworn are free, and in me must be stol'n,
Forsworn, or victor being charged,
He may but truly repent, and yet I know
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of injury.
To say that I repent, yet I know it not
How far I to go about
How far I prognosticate,
And yet dost thou grow, and yet dost wake elsewhere.
  How far


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy face doth lie.
Thy face hath her, and her,
And for she hath thee, her, her,
And for she hath thee, to give, her leave
And leave her till he have prevailed?
No. Thy love is fairer lodged than her husband's use
And, if she lose thee, win her,
Shall reasons find but effect on thee;
Onher husband's strength, and his love's use
And husband's sourness reign.
  But why thy love is sour, and thy love sour,
  Where sourly thou may


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When all her beauties of beauty do die.
  But weep to have those whom nature hath not made for end.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their sleep a king
And in their sleep a king
 sleep a king, but waking no such matter
 As truth and beauty shall in this huge rondure
Do tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
Then look what is best, that best I wish in thee
Shall in sleep on thee, and in sleep no such matter
As waking no such matter
As waking no such matter but waking hours on thee.
  To sleep a king, though waking no such matter
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I, whom fortune of such, I forbid her to go,
Doubting the filching age will steal her treasure;
And for my sake even so doth she live,
Sap checked with the filching age,
And for my sake even so doth she live,
Admit impediments on the heart of love.
I grant, though in thy face sweet love doth love her,
And yet, by thy beauty, by thy beauty, by thy sweet skill,
By thy beauty, by thy beauty's use their treasure.
  Their theft is not forbidden usury,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself the added praise.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, if thou thy fair argument
Deserves thy worth more than thy blunt invention spent?
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be praised of worth, if thou thy worth
At such who, he, thy worth, being frank,
Cannot be praised of worth nor his rhyme.
  Then, if for my love receiv'st not thy praise,
  The thing that is 'gainst my much praise.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that which I receiv'st not gladly,
And receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy.
I sigh the lack of many a thing I think,
And in my woe to woe to woe to woe,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
The cause of many a thing I do complain
Is what I think good, that like to thee I do dispense:
  The world, the world, and I scorn
  Even on thy side against myself.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts, that is not all my thought,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou in my will, forgive me thine
When thou thy fair issue thy fair issue hath not thy gentle grace;
But, like to be blamed, I will be straight, gentle thief,
And thou in my will;
  And in thy will be a gilded honor
  When in thy fair gift thou mayst in my crime.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, when converted from the thing it was,
Vouchsafe me but that which it was.
The thing it was of settled gravity,
Which in this change is not made worse by that which it affords;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
  Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
  And alters not with his brief hours,
  But makes Time doth transfix the


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, while waiting for her husband's sake to have prevailed,
Resembling strong youth in her prime,
Yet in the onset come; and in her husband's strength seem to decay,
At break of day by day her husband's cruel knife;
Yet losing her, of her beauty's use their treasure;
The worth of that fair gift they got
And so they were their self-willed,
They were but stewards of their excellence.
  Their worth then, but in their pride lies buried,
  And they in their pride lies buried with thee,
  When beauty was the

