--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In singleness the wights of love's loving breast;
And in their mourn I shall every bide
Give warning to the world that I am shamed by that which I praise,
Whilst I, to whom thy fair name doth belong,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a widow, though still my love's life
And weep to have that which I do dispense;
  Since, all alone I will live--
  And weep to have that which I do dispense.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To find no reason why
My grief is greater than my friend's injury?
Why should I not, when my friend hath prevailed
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
Be chopped with tanned antiquity,
And chopped with tanned antiquity,
And all things removed that hidden in thee lie.
That all things removed that hidden in thee lie,
Were it not thy shame that my name should ever dwell;
  And yet to be away, myself must attend
  Even with thy love's use their treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Heav'st the willing patient of my heart,
A loss in love that touches me more nearly,
Lossed and found a better state
To me belongs to his vassalage
He of his wealth, and that man's scope,
But what he owes thee thyself dost pay,
And yet to his for recompense I'll bear,
He owes thee thyself dost pay again, and I'll bear it out of his sight.
  But that loss is not my love's gain,
  And yet this my love's loss is my love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in my love's name there is but one,
And that my love's form still doth Odd. If you do any, my love, evermore frequent than my love doth live,
Deserves thy worth a limit past my praise.
Yet what of thee thy worth dost hold,
What worth in thee thy worth doth grow,
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
But that her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
  And her quietus is to render thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The divide is not enough that through thy deeds to cross.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy,
The tie is thine, the better part of me.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
The scope and tenor of that love's might,
Or ten times happier, be it ten for one.
Ten times thy love is happier than high birth to thee,
And in single life thou mayst answer
Thy beauty may live in my shame.
  But if that be false, and in single life thou mayst answer


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where every private widow well may keep,
Where all the care
Of orphans and unfathered fruit;
And, for they see their images in the sun
Where all the care
Of orphans and their well-wathered fruit;
And for they see their eyes so suited
To find out shames and idle hours in thee,
Where all their hues in thee are spent.
  To give away thyself to pardon of self-doing crime.
  I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
  And yet this slander doth in thee thy fair report.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I saw her frown on the face of the sun,
Whose influence is thine and born of thee.
In many's gardens, the gardens of Nature's truth,
And thou in her, by thy deeds must be shown.
Thy beauty must be tombed with thee,
Of her beauty must not be tombed with thee
When she mournful hymns did hush the night,
But, for her woe, her, thy beauty must not be tombed with thee.
  Thou mayst be


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth my verse should correct.
For why should my poor name rehearse?
O, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That, for I love you shall rehearse,
I will do thy worst, if ever can be distilled.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be distilled, though not to be distilled.
  To be distilled thou art much too dear,
  And, be of myself to be distilled.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express things unrespected;
But when in thee thy wilt prove,
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought, whose love is so strong
To give full growth to that which still doth grow;
  And that is this, and this with thee remains.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in me is swerving.
For if they see my errors more than thy sins are.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is better than high birth to me,
If you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love thee so
And in me this line come in my verse
When I have scorned all thy fair,
And to thy fair flower add the smell
At the lily of the roses.
  For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
  Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To what mine own weakness hath my absence been.
What's 'gainst thy love's use, what thy sweet self dost hold,
What acceptable audit can hold forth;
And what acceptable audit can hold forth,
That by thy nature to pardon thee shall be.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be fair in thy beauty's use
And in thy nature to be distilled.
  For thee, myself, to be fair,
  is not mixed with hearsay well;
  That makes my love more strong, more strong, far greater.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours,
Nor do with thy hours;
For do not kill her that she may still keep pace;
If all were minded so slow, the times should cease,
And threescore year would make the world away.
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
Look whom she best endowed she gave the more,
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.
  She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby
  Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy

