--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
Beyond all repair, all repair being made.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And that, in black ink, they measure by thy deeds;
Then, churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
To thy black ink their estimate.
  Their gross figures I read, and they hideous charts I read;
  Their sad descriptions had not skill enough thy wits to sing.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those fairly which receive thee more?
Ay me, but yet thou art my friend,
And I must ransom thee;
Thou art my all the world, and I must ransom thee
Unless my friend, thy dear doting heart, give back again.
Thou canst not ransom me of nought,
Unless thou take that friend's amiss
Which parts of thee that I in thee dost steal.
  To give from me thyself thou must leave me,
  And me thou must leave poor me first.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
By releasing me of thy will, by paying too much rent?
Thou art thy self too fair
And for myself mine own worth must ransom thee;
So that, for myself, I will ransom thee
Of my self thou art not self-substantial,
For thou art my all thy sum.
He that doth steal thee all my treasure,
And what can mine is but thee?
  him thou art so strongly in my purpose bred
  That, if he steal thee all my treasure, he takes thee all


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose worth's unknown, although my dear doting heart
Finds no reason why thou shouldst wish.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and therefore her glass will show
Her husbandry, though his presence still beweep.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and therefore her glass will be well esteemed
; her husbandry well befits,
For he that cherubins in thy lap doth grow.
  But thy glass will be better used
  Where mother's glass is not so fair.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou the tenth gracious, ten times more in worth
Than those gold pentagons that trifles are.
Ten times thy beauty may be measured
From thy count, but now is thy fee;
Thou art the tenth fair, ten times happier
Than those gold pentagons that trifles be.
To give them from me thou hast the strength of ten,
And I the tenth benefit of ten times happier me.
  But if thou wilt leave me, thou art all my glory.
  I am shamed by that which thou bringest, and so shalt be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown,
They know thy face better than thy tongue?
Thou art thy mother's glass, and therefore they view
Thy beauty indirectly; in that they know
Thou art thy mother's glass, too bright
For to thy sensual glass shows thee age.
In others' glass thou see'st but the barest part,
And in thee this thy fair appearance is attainted.
  Theirs for thee I grant,
  And thy for me thou viewest still.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Above all the rest mortal pitch,
Placed beside the stern age, beside the brave age,
Above all the rest mortal canker's delight
In barren rhyme on thy brow;
Above all the rest mortal canker's delight
Are present in thee, all things concealed,
That her cunning may still seem prophetic.
But, heaven forbid, thou shouldst my dear doting heart
Deliver fresh flowers to thine own bright eyes
Which time and outward form would show thee how thy lovely spring died.
  She still hath her flowers to show,
  And even so thy lovely name her


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou wilt, thou art blamed of wanting
More, slander doth thou.
Thou art blamed of wanting to know
What thy worth gives name, and that gives thee all.
The thing that doth best be said
Is 'gainst thy bad, thy good, thy good allow?
Beauteous niggardness is my invention
Which gives thee all my glory, and I all thee.
  For thee, against myself I'll go,
  And take thou my oblivion.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more suited to say
Than when I praise thy worth.
In truth, if I lose thee, my love will be
Than niggard truth will give.
If thou wilt lose me, my love will be spurring,
Spurring me to lunaris, to slow my pace.
Thou art as tyrannous in thy making
As in thy nature is,
Greeing at the place where thou art.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy days,
  Which shall be most vile, yet fairest be thy name.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is my love to thee I view.
Thou art my all the world, and I must strive
To know thy deep love from thy parts,
For thou art my all the world, and I must strive
To know thy dear merit from thy parts.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
  Lest my all the world should do it wrong.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which shall above that idle rank remain
Within the level of vulgar scandal.
The ornament of thy state,
Or state itself so deemed,
Making no summer of another's green,
Will trifle thee with winters' frost;
Nor need I jealous be thou thy summer's ornament
To summer's festivities boast;
Nor need I flatter thy lays,
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
  And therefore thou art blamed of all ages,
  And all tongues that tongue that more have expressed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Another Time that Year's Day
No farther than his eye can fly,
Points on his prey, and makes swift his heir
From Time's hand, to stop posterity.
So thou hast passed by the ambush of young days
Beggared of blood to spur,
And from his ambush doth th' impression fill
The blazon of beauty still,
And his sacred majesty still shines bright
Through all the splendor of his day.
  Yet despite this thy praise mayst in black ink be seen,
  And he in it still doth live.

