--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath figured my heart;
I will not scold thee for thy sake,
Unless thou consent, mine eye being black,
Supposed as my heart is sovereign.
Thus do I ensconce me in thy sight,
For thy love is in my mind so figured,
That it hath figured my heart to death.
  For thee my thoughts, as thou art,
  Were first created by thy love to me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If every bit my life is proved false,
By that proved me but a fool,
Now believe me, love is a double pleasure;
That is why I in my verse moan,
Whose sweet tears are more evident.
"I will not lie still for love of you,"
"I will say more o'er-crazed pities
To tear and make my verse seem even worse,"
"I will steal from you what thou wilt pay,"
And by and by they steal another's treasure.
  To be so was my love's creation;
  Then, in spite


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May live in my heart.
For now thy love and I are one;
Now, for thy love and for mine own sake seem
Not at first, but for each other's sake come;
Then, for thy love and for mine own sake be gone,
And mine own sweet pleasure be bereft,
And mine own sweet pleasure despised;
And now this is my state,
Now that thy love hath fled, of thyself I am gone,
  Not from thy heart, for I am mute here,
  Unless some other come and take my place.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than my moan that sounds in thee.
Needless to say, I moan again:
"Thou art mine, my love; my moan is thy friend's."
Then do thy gentle touches mine, mine being mine,
And do thy dear love's wrong, mine being me;
To hear that my moan is not thy friend's
Finds all thy beauty and all thy wealth;
And to see that my moan is all mine
Finds all thy beauty and all thy wealth.
  Then all thy faults be cured, mine being all thy good.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou, my poor murd'rous muse, murd'rous verse
Will in thy verse indirectly provoke a jade,
Whence it may be supposed that thou inhabit
A mansion where every fair bower doth live.
Shall vulgarity and conceit impair
The scope and character of thy verse,
Making vulgar what vulgarity is.
Thou, my poor murd'rous muse, murd'rous verse,
Cannot quite spitefully convert,
Unless thou help us int'ill that help us most.
  Be thou thy foe, my poor murd'rous muse;
  Kill


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And then thy sweet virtue in seeing doth live,
As though from some farce some heavenly prize die.
O, let them say more that like of nought
That in thee their gross perception can deceive.
Let them say more that seem more excellent
Thy slight than thy great store is,
Which in thee is put great power,
Which thou gav'st to be king over.
  To be sure of this I must go to thee
  Where riches lies, and what is best is best.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Even of truest truth, though I know her untrue.
As, for example, I have seen her born
Of princes and admiring ladies buried;
And, for true love to her I approve,
Although I swear that I am not the best acquainted
With her husbandry.
But love knows her to be false,
And to trust that she is true,
Gentle love, having won a prize,
Till I prove her untrue,
Sometime amenably.
  Since then she hath writ such a lie,
  Take heed what thou wilt dispraise;
  She


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Richer than thy hand in marriage will be,
Hung within the kingdom of thine,
And beast not of much weight nor quite so strong,
Beggared of more delight than thy breast;
Gild'st hovel and hound drooping horse are both of more delight,
Although in my behavior be king.
Yet why thy trespass on my breast thou dost break,
I am not blamed nor am thou blamed'st,
Bearing the burden of a murd'rous husband.
  This I will confess, and then be free,
  From all guilt and all blame


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too well
My deepest sympathies.
When your sweet lips have graced the table,
Your tongue-tied manners shall be praised
And tongue-tied praise shall be esteemed even there.
For if your lips have graced the table
And tongue-tied comments on my speaking parts,
Your comments shall in truth be esteemed more
Than those on your lips that thou eat.
  For tongue-tied praise is better than tongue-tied praise,
  Because of their mouths is better known.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me hatred is all the better part.
Even so thou, gentle and kind-hearted being,
Show me thy face, if thou art true, and I believe it true.
Show me thy hand, if thou art true, and I believe it to be false.
Be as thy lips are, willing and able observers
Of thy speaking words and deeds, to give truth a speck;
Fair in thy deeds so, to be sure I am true.
  Be as thy lips are, willing and able gazers
  To witness truth's invention teach, to approve it worst.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And I will compare thee,
Thy own bad and thy own good alike.
For that thy love of others is more heinous
Than mine own love of mine own is,
Suff'ring thy love to be had;
For thee to thyself I witness stand,
Thou art myself thy advocate;
And, for myself, I speak of others' badness.
That in me thou best of many is evident.
  But in me thy good is best expressed only.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
With a few swift motions her babe's jaws are taken,
And by and by swift-footed the rider
Presents to the rider with all the strength of a
Hippopotamus.
The rider's rider is swift, and stands almost beside her;
So the woman whom nature chose to breed,
Who, with a couple of her swiftness and a fine sense,
Comes in front of a very wiry rider.
  Pity the woman whose breasts were so strong,
  And, being gored, she proceeds in the rearward.

