--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use.
But when I praise thee, do not in my praise,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use
In other words by thy fair name dost deceive.
I do not praise thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
I do not praise thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
  Then, if for my love thou my love receiv'st not gladly,
  The recompense in my verse
  When tyrants' crests and tombs of


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you do forgive me?
Be not lame, poor, and in my tongue
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of my verse can say
To this composed wonder of your worth?
O, what excuse will my poor beast then find
When you have cast your pity on my sport,
Who for thy love to any, doth this express?
Be not self-willed, for thou dost beguile me,
Or what excuse will my poor beast then find
When you have cast your pity on my sport.
  Then be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Heav'st thy willfulness and virtue only be shown,
When thou thyself dost give invention light,
Comes home again, and in a new woe;
Heav'st thy willfulness and virtue only be shown
Where thou mayst true in love show.
Heav'st thy love to mine eye, that doth his love show,
And to his robb'ry had annexed thy heart;
But, for his theft, in pride of all his growth
Heav'st his pride, and his love's use their treasure.
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue hath my settled gravity;
Against that same scratching mark will ever dwell;
Against that same mark will ever dwell;
Against that same pen doth dwell
That to his subject lends not some small glory,
But he that writes of thee, if he can tell
That thou in thee thy fair issue
He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
  Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
  Since what he owes thee thyself dost pay.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
Is it thy jealousy that I may hold in my sight,
Which for thy sake even so doth my mind?
Or what good turns eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes for eyes have done?
Mine eyes for eyes have drawn thy mind, and thine for eyes have drawn.
Mine eyes for eyes have drawn thy mind, and thine for eyes have drawn.
  Yet eyes for eyes have drawn thy mind, and thine for eyes have drawn.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see it is best,
Where beauty's form in table of my heart doth live.
Then, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
The very part of my love receivest not by thy granting,
But by thy granting, I will bear it out of my graces and idle hours.
To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
And, for love receivest not by thy granting,
I cannot blame thee for my crime.
  But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
  By willful taste of what thyself


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun,
When I saw her frown on the face of the sun,
Hath she hath not the eye,
But is the star in every.
So should my love be false in this, that her false love may still shine bright,
When in her husband's shop is to show her pride.
  But if her husband, though he live and die,
  The world will wail thee and me quite,
  And yet, by thy love, by thy love, by


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
But, if for my sin of love receivest not by thy granting,
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself the due a double majesty.
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself another place
In praise of thy worth.
  Then do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that sweetest of praise.
Thou mayst true sorrow
Give warning to the world that I in my woe,
Whilst I, my sorrow, being full of care,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what care I who calls for correction
May not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest the wise world should look into thy humor
And mock thee like to me subscribes
Since, spite of many, I'll live in thee, and in thee my rhyme
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair;
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
One blushing shame, another white despair;
A third, nor red nor white, had stol'n of both,
And to his robb'ry had annexed thy hair;
But, for his theft, in pride of all his growth,
A vengeful canker ate him up to death.
  More flowers I noted, yet I none could


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
Thy picture's form is to my mind
Which in thy picture doth share
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thy picture in my sight is nothing new.
  Yet, if some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do not kill her with spites,
 kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
 kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
Who, for their numbers do not kill her,
They do but kill her with spites,
And do not kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
Of their sweetest things do kill her that her that so sweetly do.
  Lest the wise world should look into your moan
  And

