--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving glass, yet the world's eye
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
Speak of my woe, thy sweet self-willed,
Which happies those gold candles fixed in the sun
Are vanishing, and I lose them all,
Die them to me, and I lose them all.
Thou mayst true in love's and my love's fair brow
Him in thy breath their fair imperfect shade
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen.
  Then, if they see my love, thy love is better.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no fault there is no remedy that I think is best.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
He can afford
No defense to thee I in me thou hast prevailed
When I have prevailed in me and I have prevailed.
Now counting best to be with thee alone,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure.
He can dispraise me but in kind of praise,
And in gentle numbers time so slow
Neither can nor time can make defense
Against Time's injurious hand.
  Then can no defense do to me thou repent
  That in thy gentle revolt doth hence be won.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue doth stand.
Thy lover's woos, what shall he think, if ever writ,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
Against him, in his tirvish progress
Is what thy will wail, if ever be distilled?
Be Thou, and my love, to whom I am confined,
Thy friend, upon thy misprision growing,
Deserves thy worth in bounty razed quite,
And bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish
More than thou couldst in bounty cherish.
  To be frank, in wanting words to


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The defect that most I do forgive
Is it thy fault, being blamed, that thou thy fault dost mend,
Do not blame me for thee, if thou thy love receiv'st not gladly,
But be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st us,
By willful taste of what thyself refusifies.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their souls there is but one,
And love is not as fair
As any mother's child, though not as in hue,
Where is she so fair whose uneared womb
Disdains the tillage of her husbandry?
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb
Of her beauty's use
And what she wrought thee for her seal,
Which she wrought thee for her seal of her days,
  Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that she hath power
Doubting the filching age will steal her treasure;
For she hath her treasure ere she be self-killed.
Her theft, though much, is not so great,
May Time disgrace, and Death brag thou away,
Bearing loss of her, I lose her, and thou away,
She may be remembered not to be,
But, for she lies, in thee,
Her lies in thee, and in me thou must be remembered.
  Thou must not be false in this,
  Unless thou take that honor from thy name.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in doing that which gives thee so much more.
Then, if for my sake lay on me this cross,
I cannot blame thee for my sake lay,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusured.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet beloved name of thy sweet self!
O, what a blessing wouldst thou prove
If thou thy worth were indeed, but in the least,
The humble as proud of his deeds?
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
Which husbandry in honor might uphold
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
When showers have indeed stol'n thy hair;
And yet, by thy grace, thy hair may still shine bright.
  And yet, by thy deeds must be,
  And thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity is subdued.
For why should my errors be borne,
When errors hath my heart committed,
And in me is swerving in their riot even there
Wherein I errors hath my heart committed,
Whilst it hath thought itself and I must confess
That it is in my nature reigned
To set a form upon desired change,
As I errors hath in my nature been.
  Thee have I not writ, nor no critic to thee,
  Standards that in thee may be enforced.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my sight would be shown,
That thou, in my love's picture's form doth lie.
Thy picture's form in my mind is as fair
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those whose uneared womb
Can keep her womb wherein she may keep her still.
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,
After my verse in thee did better prove.
  Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst answer not with my verse alone
  To give full growth to thy fair brow.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when my love looks on thee,
I cannot blame thee for my sake thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me:
By willful addition, by thy beauty decees
By adding one thing to my mind,
But that my slight offense still may stand
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
In her beauty's rose is to my mind,
And in her she on thee she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
  Lest thy praise should do thee shame,
  And thou shouldst in my verse be thy praise

