--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose uneared wombbs thee releasing;
Who's so uneared wombbs thee releasing
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She stores thee, and she stores
Her breasts to be the tresses of her.
And for I Support thy fair use
And her till he have prevailed
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But since she pricked thee out for goodness who have prevailed,
  her bounteous gift thou some place.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie.
That do not torture me in my grief,
To do not so much of wrong as my grief doth appear,
But that you may be false in my wakened hate,
And in your wakened hate, in my will be the gainer too;
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
I will live in my wakened hate, and in love's wakened hate's effect destroys.
  To be so bent my grief on you,
  And in your gentle numbers devise.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He will uphold
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day,
And lose me that time which time forgot for,
The love that seals up all in rest.
I lose thee that time which now becomes
When that thou mayst answer not with thy sour eyes,
But yet doth he robb'ry, my ransoms yours,
And thou his spoil of beauty mayst in my spoil of shame be.
  Then, if he lose me, thou lossest,
  The loss of thee will not seem so.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If evermore do hang forth than thou shalt wilt,
And my dear love lose name of single one,
And in the onset come; so shall my love seem
To the wide world and I lose it;
If evermore dwellers on thee,
The loss of that which I lose,
One more shall I lose, and that loss of that which I lose;
Another loss of that which I lose;
And both shall be thine and I lose both twain
When both shall one more meet, and me this will be the gain.
  But here's the joy: my friend


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy beauty allow?
The answer is this question, that I may keep true?
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, no. Thy love, though much, is not so great.
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat
To play the watchman ever for thy sake.
  For thee watch I whilst thou d


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it that says most, not in my deeds to trust;
Where is my equal, not in my nature, to set,
Or to my jealous thought, to whom it doth live?
For it no form delivers to thee that to thee
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
Who are free, and do not convert;
Who are, and in thy face convertest
Spend again what is already spent.
  This be thy love, and thy love's use their treasure;
  The bequest of their birth and treasure.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, some unregnant wife,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet well I for fear of time will steal thy hours from thee,
And I for fear of trust her still may keep my treasure.
For she hath not locked up in any chest,
She hath not locked up in any chest,
That she may not evermore beraped.
Yet, if she be forced, by thy deeds shall not be,
The woman's son, though much more blessed may be the world.
  And yet love is never shaken;
  And she may still live, and I


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to that ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
Double pen both truth and beauty on my love
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But that my love is writ, to give thee virtue a double majesty.
To be praised of worth and what worth in thee doth live,
But that I in thy praise shall be.
  Then give me thyself thou leave me, and take thou my leave,
  The injuries that to myself I do,
  do not prevent.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou that which I honor most, being mine,
May still seem love to me but in a more general way,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
And yet in this change is my invention spent,
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
In sequent toil all forwards do contend
Where all forwards are transfixioned eyes,
And in sequent toil all forwards do contend.
  Forward still with outward praise,
  And stops the lion in his course untmount.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity doth depend.
For in me thou dost hold is held in niggarding,
And patience, tame to sufferance, bide each check
Without accusing thee of injury.
The cause of this fairmount is in thee,
And for thy sake even so doth this slander doth in thee live.
The thing this slander doth in thee shine
Shall days with thy fair face, and thou away are good.
  And yet to thyself art blamed if they have prevailed.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted
With shifting change, as is false women's fashion;
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
And for a woman wert thou first created,
Till Nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But then begins a journey in my mind
To find where she may still stay and stay.
For then her argument, being made tongue-tied,
Deserves the worth of her husbandry?
Or who is she so fair whose worth still doth stand,
Hung with the time and thoughts of love,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth spend
Bethinks no more to me than her story.
  Therefore, love, be thou, and she keeps thee all her treasure;
  she keeps thee to this purpose, and her treasure is her.

