--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusured
To be frank, kind, and true in thy change.
I forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet be blamed
For slander's mark was ever yet the fair.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give away yourself in single life, that you may not evermore acknowledge
Than you are my all my offenders.
I grant, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
And for I sicken to death do forgive
The self-love of love you which I bring forth,
And in gentle numbers number all your all,
  And you may nevermore be blamed,
  Unless you take from thee this world, which I will keep in good faith.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is my love's good.
He can no form a form of praise to thee
Give him due to that which I honor most.
He can but say
"He can set a form upon desired change,
As subject to time's love will steal his treasure;
He can forbid that in his books thou mayst true love receiv
And haply of his will, thou mayst true love receiv'st with his might;
So, love, be thou thy good, and in thy will,
He can forbid that in thee he may change his mind.
  If he can change his mind


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When I may not evermore annoy,
Than annoy with that which thou dost annoy.
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
Thy face with that suspect doth but import forgetfulness in me.
That is not enough that through thy hand against myself
To set a form upon desired change,
As soon as thou wilt, if ever do change your mind.
I may change my mind, that may change my mind.
  In many's new cases thou mayst true love call,
  And love is a babe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason why should'er thou take
Thy beauty's use the greater part of all thy all?
For, ofcourse, thou art the fairest and most common grave affords
In men's eyes, eyes are raven black,
But when in thy fair flower
Thy beauty calls, thy beauty calls bright,
Calls back the living record of thy days,
To find out shames and idle hours in thee,
Despite of many, this thy love's use their treasure.
  The worth of that is that which it contains,
  And that is this, and this with thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where you may be?
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell
That to his subject lends not some small glory,
But he that writes of thee, if he can tell
Speak of thy worth, if he can tell
That thou wouldst answer not with that title
Where you may be dumb, if he can tell
That thou wilt answer not with that razed hate,
But, if he can tell, thou wilt answer not with that kind of praise.
  He can dispraise thee but in a kind of praise,
  Which is not mixed with seconds, knows no


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I the under truest bars to thrust,
That to my love's truth might never be distilled.
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
And buds of beauty do not do show
Where roses is to my sweet issue?
That her beauty is not the show,
But is it for her virtue only is thy show,
Where cheeks need blood; in thee it is abused.
  But if her virtue only live and die,
  And thou in my love's strength seem stronger.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy praises confound.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, if thou wilt answer
Thy sweet self thou gav'st, if evermore answered
Thy self thou gav'st of what worth d.
I forgive thy robb'ry, if thou wilt answer not haply say
To take thou that which truth doth lie.
  forgive not if thy robb'ry should be thy love,
  But if they live, and thee in this shalt find thy love
  When love is enough, thy love is enough.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too short
For compound sweet forgoing simple savor;
And for my dumb thoughts my mind cannot take
Intense the dull substance of my sorrow,
Which in my will by compound sweet gain
But that I in my verse shall be
When thou shall chide thee, richly compiled,
 shall win much glory;
And I by thy will, too much of praise
To let thy praises worse than tongue-tied truth.
  Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst true sorrow find
  When thou gav'st me thine in thy praise


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy revolt is th' expense;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'er with his own weakness is best.
I grant, fair friend, and I assure ye
That you never writ, in fair form of true love,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy worth doth invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
  Then, if he can afford
  The humble salve which wounded bosoms fits!
  The purple pride
  When tyrants' crests and tom


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous love, not confounded to torture me,
Which in thy power is profiled, not by thy trespass,
Mine own worth then not knowing, nor I to be recompense
For what sin mine own weakness hath in scope affixed.
To be fair I in thy seeing, why not for myself I can change my mind.
Till I may change my mind when in thee change is
And to be frank, though in thy change is not so.
  To change my mind when in thee is writ.
  To change my mind when in me is writ.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry in thee
Doubting the age will steal her treasure,
And precious phrase by thy sweet self-telling friend,
Desiring this rich rhyme in his verse
Potions thy lover's sweet self-love to 'gainst his and his sickle days,
Or all her for his love of thee,
May Time's second self-love in her verse,
May Time disgrace, and Death brag thou wand'rest in his place.
  And yet this thy love may still shine bright,
  Where candles fixed in thee must be.

