--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, seeing how thy drooping head slandered,
Give ear to loss, to gentle scandal.
Yet although thou mak'st my distillation not methinks,
When I was once distilled wert thou mine,
Mine eye, not methinks, hath given thee this excellent
Point. Thy outward addition makes methinks
But through thy glass--substantial as the canker--
For knowledge of thy niggard art."
  " 'Tis tempting, when thyself so excel
  That I straight gladly show thy growing number how far my praise wert."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my soul parts with mine own to healing say?
Ah, even if myself need tendered,
I in my indigestion abide;
Now, being deemed fair, full well of self-love,
Now purge by myself the false esteem
Of my poor thinking tender, my poor heart vouchsafed
Save where it receives that bower from thee.
When all the beauties have been subdued,
My gracious self-love behold'ring
When in the willing meditation on myself becomes gross.
  Then all was lost when my sweet self-love spake:
  My verse


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see.
Before moving on he may put foot upon mine eye,
He must commence his conquest of earth.
The earthy erst thou hast my ignorance engrafted,
The riches of thy mind have taught me thus;
Now transgression is mine and mine alone.
Thus shall he lead worms through the worth of thee,
Robbing wood for fuel, in his tempting sell.
  If Nature be dead he would summon back
  How fast his Earthlings could gain thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
While to spite my show what's worth,
Since that what's more wretched turns the worst suspect.
Thou dearest true friend, thy love being half true,
A lover's face so grossly painted
That every tongue doth resort to a vulgar cry.
I have seen him smiling more prominently
In that doting wife and children knit;
Myself most affable appear when others dine.
Yet in love mine eyes my thoughts are fairest;
Thy thoughts even thence through the glutton are seen.
  Pity me thus, and wish I had that I couldst live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mark how thou robb'st by my extern,
How by poor stealth thou steal thy lover's blood;
If thou wilt allow thyself a moment's extern,
Make me an easy prisoner, why repent thou art so?
Then fear not the pied'st ambush,
O, give thyself access to the prize,
Feeding worms thine eye, thy great inward desire;
Mark how thou shalt such a thing go wrong
That I an inviting acquaintance thou hast missed,
  Receiving sweet leave to be queen.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They are kings and princes,
As alchemy methinks, and methinks their jewels
Potentially faring all our boughs and dull stones.
For thou art, of sirely pride,
The bearer of thine own sharpness,
Who, compounded good, in purest heredity
Grows everywhere and everywhere doth excel.
So thou sad decease, master deceiver,
Who, compounded by own basest weakness,
Sinks things to their extreme end;
  Where, all alone, thou dost be woe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whose inward sweetness might make our sweet chat more
Or the sight of our change concords desired.
I wail the mane that gives new lease to his woe,
Increasing thee in hope,
Who, by outward influence taught beauty to wear
Crawf-raw, as both mine ear and yours is.
Your love with whom the world abets
Hath delayed needs much stirring,
Inciting this calamity when it hath already fallen,
That curse this loss tells of spurring onward.
  Praising her legacy, praise her well,
  Praising her beauty with


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Now excuse me indeed if thou wilt do thence,
When from the just I may jump,
And after thy judgment come nigh,
And like a spirit often seen haply gone
By tempting thee to errors,
Now let them like married couple depart
By all outward showment o'eragger,
Suff'ring children in purgatory,
Serving thee and me but poor repair.
O, shun the sight of a wink,
Shall temptation disgrace me if thou know'st thou doth lie.
  Receiving thine eye now after my decease
  Neg


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such sincerity as thy outward shows.
Thence comes the matter of likers,
Those who in their judgment fairly weigh compare
Thy merit to equal mine.
Lean aside the beauty and virtue of thy name,
Save that worth some lofty place enclose.
Till this body be liquidated thou return,
While these 't waste courses of the world,
Proven by falsehood and rich in scandal,
Be gone, all enfeebled and defeated,
Doubting a better life in this.
  To return is slandered in all respects,
  And to speak of this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that ill in me niggard kindness writ.
A thousand thoughts and a thousand touches sunk in my thoughts,
Disdaining mine eye to read;
Yet straight I to thy fair churl tells,
Which broad leaves mak'st flowers shady;
Ten times my verse hath expressed thy image,
But thou art so far the inmost sky
That even my rocks indirectly hear it end.
Hearing such argument would ruin my breast,
  That me most oft turns to thee,
  And, confounded with myself, ill stol'n
  To herd my horse when off


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That use of many for one;
More blessed are those blest cherubins
Which in thy Love Reserve shalt find
Each next to be Evil.
Weeds are best stewards,
Whereso dare the watchful mow,
He puts an end to weeds till sport is won,
Which shall not mend itself:
Rough times do fill that black black soil
Which doth bestow thy beauty's name.
  For nothing good belongs to thine looks,
  But thy looks tell and beauty be good cheer.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Descends mounted on top of tall beauteous men,
Grows o'erack upon addition, and stores all his goods
Save where abundance confines,
As if from the morn all alone sit.
To leave that part where abundance lays,
Plods her away in front of me.
In what expense have ye my lambs got,
As tenants to the owner's former roof,
Leasing messengers from farther off?
  If they had known thy desire, 'tis impaneled;
  But since ye ne'er lacked land, they rear not.

