--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy looks with me strangely.
I have seen thee frown on black night,
Beggared of blood by thy complexion dull,
Thy lips were full of wrinkles, and I in thy bosom's shop
Made tongue-tied comments on thy sport.
Thou that art now my black,
Loving offenders that do not look so;
Thou that art now my praise,
And my body, being pierced,
Crawls to the shop where thou art.
  Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
  Which made thy dreams worse than thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if you torture me less, I lose my friend and you?
No, I lose you, dear friend, and I lose all your respect.
That loss is not enough, dear friend, to ransom me;
Unless you would ransom me of your robb'ry,
Which I will ransom your gentle love,
Unless you would ransom me of your moan.
If you will live in this poor crime,
The guilty party is my friend, and I lose all your love.
  To him I lose all respect, even to your loveliness;
  And to him I lose all respect


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
Nor shaken by the blow of thralled guilt.
When I have bid thee farewell,
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken
Not by thy desire, but by thy gentle love.
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother;
And, shamed by thy neglect, beauteous husbandry
To make thy vassal bound to thee.
  And, to be most obsequious, I will steal thee all my poverty,
  And give thee all my sweets.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy adverse party is thy chief desire,
And my cause hath got thee to cross.
To be so tickled they would change their state,
By moving thee more or me less;
Till I change my mind, or else thy heart
Beggared of thy change, and her wish would be revoked.
If this be error, my love shall in thought ever live,
Die single, and thine heir shall be.
  Thus shall I taste the bitterness of thy sour state,
  Compared with loss of thee will not seem so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past thy comfort,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew;
By this thy review shalt I find,
Although altered to thy reasons,
Not eased by thy bending all my bending.
Thou art as tyrannous, therefore art enforced to seek anew;
Until that thy reasons have figured out,
Which, not eased by thy bending all my bending,
Do me shame, that thou among the stars doth deceive.
  For thee, against myself I am to go,
  Since, against thee, thy fair


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when they see that thou in them
Unlooked for treasure, they look again
At the mortal moon, whose eclipse
Grows strong and fickle clouds hath put a stronger light
Than those fierce gales that besiege the heaven's brow.
How can thy glass, wide as the eye's eye's compass,
Be likened to the hand that guides thee in thy motion?
Thou art much more bright than the eye hath shown,
And much more bright than the surly greeing on the ground.
  How can they make thee mad, which maniacal greeing can


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Serving with looks strange, in seeming false to me.
How can I then be false to trust her,
Knowing my false esteeming of others' truth?
I do believe she is the wits of my heart,
Who plead for my love, not for thy sake,
But for thy sake only is my love remembered,
And her confounds me to death.
  She hath not sickened me with delusions,
  Since then, sick of many, I have supposed her dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee blushing before?
Ah, if thou art blamed of a greater grief,
Thou art blamed of a lesser grief.
Be thou the tenth muse; ten times thy worth be
Compare thy worth with the rest of thy fame;
If I lose thee thy love, my love hath lost name;
And losing thee thy name hath brought a loss of love.
  And losing me thou hast lost my love, my love hath lost name.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' impression which thou send'st
Of thy worth, thy worth's unknown,
My body being crowned with that which thou bring'st.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
Th' impression which thou send'st
Of thy beauty doth advance,
But stops short when thou art told it is grown.
  Therefore, thou goateth, my poor beast;
  I will bear thee all the might of state,
  Which wide world may be my wolf.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that in thee doth invent.
Thou dost love that which thy sweet self doth call;
Whose love, when thou thy sweet self dost lie,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
If thou thyself refusest?
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
If thou thyself refusest?
  How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
  If thou thyself were to be impeached.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And keep mine eye awake,
Looking on things that are out;
What hast thou then more blessed than thou hadst before?
What hast thou then more blessed than thou hadst before?
The cause of thy love is wanting,
So thou hast blamed thy state,
And 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence.
Thou mayst be false to me,
A thief on thy state,
And an accessary to my state,
Who steals thee all my quiet delight.
  To him thou hast all my quiet kindness,
  And him all mine is sicken, to thee all


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No wonder, then, that thou bear'st not Time's fool,
Seems cunning, swift, and strong indeed canst not vex thee;
Therefore thou hast no need of provocation.
Thou hast, rather, been hawked to the wakened
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
If, in time deceiving of thee,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Of newer might make Time's spoils despised everywhere.
  Yet wonder how thy worth with manners mayst thou make Time's spoils boast.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still

