--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All gay in hue and glee wear this hideous title:
Treat all that have sallowed thy graces,
Being tongues profaned, becoming less true
And quicker to approve thy likings;
For that thy abuses in my sight
Are already told are proved,
Of course this report true and most true;
And still love proves my torture,
Creaming dread and fury to scorn,
Against thy loving subjects mounted up in thee.
  If that verse contain any more to brave pen,
  Pity me less, poor wretched wretched bitch;
  O, what a bliss the


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Although all my limbs will remain unthrifty,
Nor steal treasure from me,
Or give prisoner to my love's widow;
Even so life vices and frailties outlive all love's content;
Who for lives and loves their lack leaves them worse off.
Even so riper I with worms am,
Hung with famine on all sides,
And, despite of want, wearier worms in me.
  Lo, cruel and menial worms, have I not so trifling seen,
  To love and feature of unbless joy.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might give.
Then after my decease he finds a kind of respect,
Being wooed for a look, my love granting,
Feeding the hungry hungry horse with wary bell,
Appearing fast to the west on the lease,
With hawks, or to the westward from mine,
At first nimble by car, but when ordered by horse,
Stealing ambush where no man shall catch;
Diverting a low building to his advantage
By accesspoint, or lawful hide where ambush shall lie,
Rescuing as many as he needs, of more delight
To lose that treasure


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What happies thy poor trespass, what glad tidings shalt thou miscarry,
Which now thy sweet love hath shaken,
And from thy affections delights brings
A kiss of well-wishing 'gainst true love's tender issue.
Rough winds and contracted love do steal sweetness from thee,
Coral or o'er, lusty or tame, gentle or stern,
Lean or hard-hearted or cruel, be thou their prisoner.
  But thou forst that bitterness shall ever be bitter,
  And that churl Death her captive bide time and time again.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou the tenth consort given thy living sight
To bear what thy heart doth bear.
Reserve thyself thou art fond, being perusal a prince,
Which from thy living sight sits still,
Above the bloody level of deepest infection.
If thou desire be reigned there,
Lest the infection be mortal and thy life taken.
So thy sweet virtue be removed, and my flesh be--
  Since thence this unrespected stay thine shall prove,
  By learning thy fate and thine own decease.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What gold is precious, how precious stones it is,
How to the sea one by one stand held,
When from the dead speak one doth stay,
And quite like them that living lips doth rehearse,
Resembling tame birds.
Yet love's power over mind is ten times greater,
Than that of some fierce beast who must be subdued;
I forbid them, truly repentant say,
That I will kill thee.
  For t' deceive no whit about thee
  Since losing thee I will take care of thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, full of wonder,
With dreams never till I perceive them,
Have thought fondly upon things I am to witness.
O, hold on a moment, dear heart;
My love's appearance is assured
In such fair and true eyes that most approve;
So, my friend, if not to thee, bid her good night,
Reserve her for my sake, and truly repent,
Without accusing her of anything untoward.
  Pity her, my poor ghost; she must not live fondly
  When I boast how she looks after thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art more thy image than tempting my sorrow;
And, through thee, where thy own sweet pleasure delights, manipulatry
To steal sorrow's sweet sense from fear and delight.
O, forbid them my fleeting ne'er-accusing look
Which ocean affords sweet leads to wealth and happy lovers;
O, their sour thoughts and tears will comfort my heart;
Him in thy glass will show thy pride and beauty;
Yet these assailed are my enemies,
And my gentle critic would not do so;
  Let them go, weep not, for I am thy image


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my deeds more.
Thou blest art directed towards the heart of sorrow,
And that gentle need is enough to persuade
My brain to send me onwards in the right direction.
Our extreme plight makes sweet supplication,
Though thou know'st it may be an all-eating situation.
So be thy grief and pity, not sourly
Flatter my lambs with your ill-doing substance,
And lace me with thee in their travail,
Hungrily hanging on thy weighty neck.
  Thou shouldst not outlive a glorious death
  To suffer that which today endeth


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which is better for thy argument set
Than mine own hand if it errand be delivered.
Yet hate is proved to be a vice by thy love;
Thou od'st love proves so worse than hate is proved.
O, learn thus thy love's history,
And do thy worst to spot rarefied errors,
Which on thy record I can spot.
Rising in love's pattern do I spot,
Although never seeing thee nor seeing thee elsewhere,
Since having seen thee doth my praise,
Which for thy sake is straight my grave.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For in thy former case thee couldst not boast,
On thy marriage to that same beauty.
The owner of beauty breeds good, though there be defect,
And in thy bones good is called anold;
In my cheek sits all worth, and in thy heart
Thy teeth when starved are savored.
Even here in thy heart methinks a daughter must be,
The warrior mother her own tongue,
To entertain the sick mother with a sad story.
  Be still, methinks; it is thy love that loves that fears.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And wherever the lusty limber goes,
His stringing the lambs is a must.
Let me be the first to congratulate you upon my change,
Or you, just as you were when I first gave my husband your gift,
Ten glorious minutes of gentle kindness can appear.
When, salving thy blessings with virtuous deeds,
The clock hath hounds before it stopped here.
Now the clock is to her as the monarch is,
Stealing a prize that confounds eyes even to the crown.
  Or if not victor of time, it is hallowed beauty.

