--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thou dost beguile me with excuses curse;
Those eyes my love hath drawn, and my frown
Are symbols of thine own bright eyes.
But why thy dear love hath not drawn,
Called to that which thee to complain;
Made worse by thy neglect
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
To 'black praise needs must be fairest,
Since thence all art black art dumb.
  Wretched that thy black is not worthier than thee?
  To thee I so offend, knowing thy weakness.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless there be some greater spirit in thee?
Dost thou desire my graces assailed,
Or else my lameness be termed a spy?
Since thy great deserts are bounteous,
What acceptable audit can mine own desert leave?
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To ride the waves in the long tide,
Bearing the see, not the ocean;
That's for thy benefit to paddle is his.
  Then can I surmount the waves,
  Or weary time that hindmost mine.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not missed.
Beauteous thy worth, now my greatest,
Being subject to time's conquest; now my greatest fear,
Whilst he that is conquered shall profit me half;
I will ransom him of my love,
And thou my swerving amiss,
Seeking that ransom to ransom my deeds.
Beauteous niggard humor, now my greatest fear,
Haply I hammer his cheek with spites,
And he that goes in violent conquest shall be as free
As he goes in gentle repair.
  This myself am to ransom him, and thou my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With my most vexatious jealousy removed,
Thy adverse party hath put me to death.
The soil is thine and is rotten.
Thou sour that which thou dost foist upon me,
The dear wounds which thy betrayer hath done.
The worth of that which it contains,
Or the better part thereof, if it suffers;
The widow well knows, and thus her beauty;
But if that well which thou dost foist upon me,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive.
  Hence, thou art blamed if thou live remembered not to be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy oblivion faster than gravity?
If this be error, thy most strong hand may do it;
Against this shall I throw all my might,
To make thy jealousy stronger than thy weak hand.
I never lose sight of thee,
Showing thy oblivion where thou art gone.
That beauty on thy weak heart may seem stronger than those on thy right;
And me most weak, thou art much better able to hold a taker's pen.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, moving others, are themselves as stone
Thy inward worth the greater;
So they see but what thou beholdest;
Without these external clues, their vision is
Stealing away.
The self thou viewest in thy own bud
Cannot tell thine own bright
Point by thy moving shade,
But that thy love inwardly doth make
Points of light, darkly bright, and coldly coldly hot.
  Such a man befits, so as thou gav'st his wit,
  To set a dead record of false witness.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Excusing myself for my woe,
Wretched in knowledge of what is best,
Which, like a dove, must shear
To the crooked swift motion of birds.
How like Eve's apple doth she sing
When barren riper strains her way,
Borne on the bold move of the season's apple?
How like Eve's apple doth she herd her young,
Borne on the strong of summer's day
When strong youth in hounds, by ere she be won;
  And even worse, I fear,
  That her quietus is worse than an ass


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save that my bad which thou receivest,
For truth proves thievish for a stick.
The stick thou stick'st is flatter than the eye can see;
The farther aught from my skill
The farther afield from thy seeing,
The worse is this, that my warm bosoms
May Time disgrace, in losing me time.
But what of thee Time injures that doth thine eye,
  Where loss and thee shall debate,
  That Time will sometime disgrace me and make me kill thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Thou of thine own dumb presagers, whose gentle rhyme doth rehearse
Next to thee are those familiar words.
They rehearse, and rightly so;
Thou of thyself thy good friend, how thy worth with manners grow?
Till I, too lazy to dwell,
Be dumb and silent for thy sake. Silence is not welcome heretical
On thy part, for thy silent decay leads everywhere.
  Thus do I pine, being tick


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor soul that hath 'scaped it.
Thou art as sweet and kind,
As those spies which the gazers know,
Finding thy deeds hidden in thy heart.
Not all thy bads lie in this,
Nor my badness is in this my goodness blamed;
But in this my good turns vs. against myself I make war;
And in this I use thine own prophetic strength
To make sense of thy good report.
  The bad is this: mine eyes are false,
  And thy good eyes have no part.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, my decrees of right,
Against thy will, my judgment's being made.
For why dost thou use the grant of thy will,
Against thy will thy mind's will, evermore?
Because thy glass shows thee me thee me thee indeed
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, to wit, that against thy will.
  That unfair which thy glass shows thee is fairest,
  To it and for myself only.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
How many a glorious morning might not fade
In one of her tender womb,
Thy bosom's blazing might; her great deserts might be assailed
By extreme numbers drawn from thine own.
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age,
When hard numbers do crowned themselves assured.
Now with the drops of this successive year
Sweet beauty mayst thou survive,
Since, say, thy sweet self grow'st.
  And keep in mind this line, that thou through windows of age shalt see
  More of thy beauty now than in

