--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose fair eyes, having fled from mine eye,
Returned from mine eye's eye their fair hue,
Making a pilgrimage to thee.
Ah, but thy fair eyes, having fled from mine eye,
Returned from mine eye's fair hue,
Making a pilgrimage to thee.
  And so my verse begins,
  Receiving from thy fair eyes thy fair hue.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I in my greece am subject to all torture,
And yet I never know how
To break the ten-fold pentanta that under my wing
Comes to grief's length and grief's length defeated.
O, let me be silent, that my verse may best express
Your deepest grief;
O, that my verse may best express your love's length;
Let me be blunt in my argument,
Your sweet love's face painted so.
  To break this silence I send this telegram:
  To you I send this telegram to express my sorrow,
  To you


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The present state of affairs.
Now, for the first time in my life I see
A face to whom all eyes are directed,
That I may see farther than those present,
And in the stars themselves I see my true self.
Now, for the first time in my life I see
A perfect true-blessed star,
That I may behold in them all the glory of my day.
Now behold, in them all the glory of my day
And all the stars in them are false,
Making me a god to them all.
  Then, if they have seen


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I that vex thee with my absence,
Even though thou my love bring me here,
To see what anon thy neglect hath done.
Thou art the greater of many,
And I will be thy flatterer,
By adding one more thing to my main,
And that is thy love's effect.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all the gardens in sight,
Which beauty's fair doth stand still,
And yet love cannot make love groan,
  Since love's fair complexion doth stand still,
  Unless thou change thy mind.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the grave whereon the murd'rous thief
Hath lived, and thou dwell'st there,
With all the might of the world's best,
To die a vengeful death, being buried where thou art.
Thou art the grave whereon the murd'rous thief
Comes, being buried where thou art.
  This thy grave leads to, where thou art assured.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy heart,
And that it hath a part in the conquest.
Thou canst not, sweet thief, steal thyself thyself thyself
From thyself thy beauty's sightless eyes,
And thence to thyself thy beauty's sightless heart
Comes in thy breast, wherethrough thy breast's milk
Thou art made of thine own self.
Thou art the image of beauty's fair,
Which in thy breast doth live, and thou art made of thine.
  This thy image should, therefore, be thine,
  Rece


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas, out of date, she still lives.
Our date is as sweet as a babe's eye,
But when she is set free, so our love's delight
Is shaken to the edge of doom.
Then can I not blame her for my love's sake
When she is so sure of my being,
That she will believe her when she deceives.
  For she that calls on thee,
  Receiving thee in her tears,
  Makes me swear fealty to her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make no slander of mine own wit, my love being better known,
Thou by thy deeds well know'st.
Make no slander of mine own wit, my love being better known,
And for this slander prove
Thy sweet love's worth by thy deeds well known.
Thou, my love being mine, mine being thy good report;
So, to be fair and true in thy art,
Be not false in thy deeds, my love being mine.
  For thee mine is my good report,
  To whom mine is all my glory.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thou art wont.
O, learn to read the verse which thou thyself
Dost give thyself thyself thysymbol.
O, learn to read the epitaph to thyself
When thou art assured that my love is as thy
Full jewel from thy chest to show,
Or else of thyself thyself thyself thyself show.
O, learn to read the epitaph to thyself
When thou art assured that my love is as thy
Full jewel from thy chest to show.
  Such is thy beauty, o'er-doting youth,



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me is most dear esteem.
For what mine eyes see is my love's due,
Or what mine eyes' eyes' knowledge is my love's due,
Or what mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due,
Or what mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due,
Or what mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due,
Or what mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due.
  For mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due,
  And mine eyes' knowledge is my love's due.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That to thy love's favor thine own love will be proved.
Thou mayst be true, true and true in my heart,
And in my thoughts thou know'st how to make love seem false.
In other words, thou know'st how to make my heart hate me more.
Thou mayst be true, true and true in my heart,
And in my thoughts thou know'st how to make my heart hate me more.
  But if that, thy love being false in me,
  I will be a bastardized form of thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner did I depart,
Than, out of breath, I heard her moan,
And fell silent, my mistress' eyes gazing on
From behind the canopy of her husbandry.
The groan was not so much the moan
Of her husbandry's dead as the moan of a child,
But when her husbandry's living hue
Hath leapt from behind the canopy,
The sight was enough to make me woe;
Then, out of breath, I heard her say,
And fell silent, my mistress' eyes gazing on
From behind the canopy of her husbandry.

