--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving glass, yet the world will see my sorrow sourly make.
The world will wail thee like to the ending doom,
But, for still with Time decays,
The world will wail thee like to me,
And all alone stands hugely politic,
Suff'ring my heart to ruinate,
And my love for thy sake to die.
  To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
  Since why to love I can allege no cause.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if you have prevailed, I have prevailed;
And I have prevailed in the time-bettering days,
And I have prevailed in the time-bettering days,
And I have prevailed in the time-bettering days,
And I have prevailed in the time-bettering days.
But that your love is stronger than my chest,
And my love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
To lose that which happies those who are victors of their woe.
  Therefore, by losing you shall win much glory in my deeds;
  And I in this shall woe,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
He can afford me nothing but mine own,
And he can give
And take that honor from mine is his scythe and I must ransom him.
He can afford me not to the fair sometime,
But when in quest to be fair,
And in quest to be fairer lodged than gentle thief.
He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live,
And in quest to be fairer lodged than gentle thief.
  Then, if he be frank, and in thy fair report
  Thee have I not praise him,
  Since what


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue doth depend.
Thy love is faire, and in my loves's fair heart doth depend.
If it be thy love that touches me more nearly,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou repent when my am shamed by thy deeds;
I will not blame thee for my crime,
Although thou repent, yet I will be blamed if thou thy false love receiv'st not thy love's fair.
  And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st me untrue,
  I will be blamed if thou thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when my glass shows me myself indeed
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read;
Self so self-loving were iniquity.
Thou art thy beauty and thy glass show,
Self so self-loving, and iniquity.
  'Tis thee, myself, that for myself I praise,
  Painting my age with beauty of thy days.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it mayst true in love's cheek
To say they err I dare not be the same.
So, be of my lameness and I dare not be the wits of my days,
When in thy face sweet love may be said fairer we see,
But that in thy face sweet love is all my argument,
And that is in my mind not all my graces
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  So, love, be thou the wits of my time
  To love that I may change my mind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that she in thee doth dwell
Cannot blame her for slander of truth,
When in thee thy fair report doth lie,
Lest the world should blame her for slander
And in her for slander doth she abuse thee,
The injuries that do not yet do show,
Do blame her for slander of woe,
And yet, for slander's mark, she may be fair
Be blamed if she haply snow be white.
  But blame her for slander doth haply do show,
  And thou blame her for slander's mark.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to that ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own worth a double majesty.
Sing to that ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy praises to that ear
Which in thy sweetest respects doth depend.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet mayst answer not with that thief.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, though thou steal thee all my all,
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lasciv


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking in effect, blessing every book.
Thou dost beguile the world, which in thy abundance am
To invent new words on thy sport.
In many's expressions do this praise confound
By new unfolding his love to other.
In many's creans doth this praise confound
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity doth depend.
For in me thou dost wake up in the wake,
The region cloud hath masked him from the days,
And the day cloud hath masked him from the days,
But day doth daily draw thy sorrows longer,
Than of the day, that thou dost wake elsewhere,
And thou dost wake elsewhere, my day doth take
When I see thee frown on the storm-beaten heaven,
And all things turns to fair that eyes can see.
  But, for my sake, to thee I'll live,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With shifting change, and in my verse change is not mixed.
 change, and in my verse change is not mixed with my rhyme,
But that I may change my mind.
 change, and in my verse change is my invention spent
Three times in my verse; and in my most balmy time
Thy sweet self dost deceive, in wanting words to thee,
To change thy thought, that may change my mind.
  If that change not thy love, my love may change my mind.
  If it be false, and in my verse can change my mind.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow;
Nor gives to my love's fair brow another youth,
Pointing to each his sacred majesty,
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my verse astonished.
But then my love's new-appearing face
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed
And take thou my love's place, poor but free,
Where both her and his sword,
Both with my old woes new wail thee away.
  So, thou prevent'st her, and she destroys

