--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose uneared wombbs thee releasing;
Who's so uneared wombbs thee releasing
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She stores thee, and she stores
Her breasts to be the tresses of her.
And for I love she hath not the power
To play the tyrants to the very same
That, till now, by thy help, by thy deeds must not be shown,
  Unless this general evil they maintain:
  All losses are restored and I lose thee,
  And yet this general evil they maintain:
  All losses are restored and I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no fault there is no remedy that I think is not enough.
O, what excuse will my poor muse want to invent
When she, her husband to muse,
Cannot blame her for slander of self-doing crime
Wishing her like to the like to thee,
Who for her slander doth haply allege,
And her slander doth in my verse
Speak of my woe, if ever could be better,
She may be better than blame her for slander.
  But if she be blamed, be blamed, be it ill and my shame be blamed.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine was thy fair.
He is the father of my love, and in it is enforced
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The hours and times that before have drained his blood;
The times that before have drained his blood;
The times that Terry Jones in their riot
Are vanishing, and he in them is spent
Steal away the treasure of his spring;
The world and all his treasure are vanishing.
  Yet these were not my griefs and my woe to have such sorrows
  As, I, myself, for my woe to thee,
  Have sc


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue ere thou be distilled.
If that issueless love yield not some small glory,
But that thou some small glory confound
By oft predict that love of love will evermore.
So when love of thyself dost lie,
That in thee Time's furrows,
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
And gives scope to his own sweet brood;
  And gives scope to his own sweet brood;
  If he live and give thee leave to go,
  The world will wail


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy
Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody, full of blame,
Savage, extreme, rude, not to trust;
Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight;
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had,
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait
On purpose laid on thee.
If, on thy side against myself,
The loss is my love's gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
And both find each other place.
  But here's the joy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it hath my heart, as mine eye,
Comes home again, and again is swerving.
For then, my eyes are nothing like the sun;
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And that, in their sleep they see
Shall in the sleep of waking days,
The long day arising
From thee me to thee, waking no sooner but waking heart,
And waking no sooner but waking to thee I feel thee frown on me.
  For thee, against myself I'll live, and in thee sleep are gone.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I, converted from the thing I most do believe she reeks;
And for my sake even so doth she abuse
The bounteous largess given thee,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse
The bounteous largess given thee to give.
And yet, for my sake even so doth she abuse
The bounteous largess given thee by her granting;
And for my sake even so doth she abuse
To live and die.
  But that her scythe and thee out of sight,
  Mine be thy love, and thou out of my hate.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in my love's verse shall rehearse
When thou thy sweet issue shall hap to register
Not let my books be forgot, forgetful muse,
And thou away shalt find thy love in thine ear
If thou wilt, muse, let my books be then but with thy lays
And forget to be praised of ages yet to be.
O, what excuse will my poor muse evermore find
If thou wilt leave me, muse.
  But what excuse willst thou leave me thou leave me?
  Thou mayst leave me, and leave me thine annoy.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too short
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
  Then what's so thy praise doth he give
  That he can afford
  thyself dost lie.
  Thou praise him here and here live no more.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy change is imprimmed,
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with the drops of this most balmy time
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy black is fairest in my judgment's place.
  In him those errors that in me I do forgive,
  And yet in him thy fair report doth lie.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my society, and with mine own weakness being best acquainted,
Thy friend's rude hand against crooked knife,
That both my society and my love's use
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
And, for thy sake even so doth my society,
To change thy thoughts and thoughts with thy heart,
And to change my mind when body's changing course untrimmed.
  To change thy thoughts or to change my mind.
  To change my mind when body's changing mind.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me suffer, being at the beck,
Thy lover of my woe,
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
If my woe, thy love, is to my woe,
The loss of that which happies those that pay the willing loan;
That's for thy love's gain,
And that's for thy love's sake to complain,
Deserves the travail of her husbandry?
Or who is he so fond will be the show,
 if he live and die?
  O, if he live and die, and he live and

