--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath figured my heart;
I will not glance upon thy beauty in scorn,
For my loving thoughts and heart's content do not lie,
But thou in them hast put my heart to shame.
Thou gav'st my love to this extent,
Which in thy heart in sad plight shows;
Yet be thou my friend, and I am thy friend
When thou gav'st my woe to this extent.
  And hence, being wooed, I straight add "Thou gav'st my love to this extent."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must each day crave that same,
And every bad that afflicts me must be worse
Than when I am dead.
So then do I vow feasts, nevermore
Though my body be cast away,
Or eyes more blessed than mine are,
Or eyes more blessed than theirs be.
That I will be new to love and look at new,
Knowing that I must be strong to bear new's sight.
  So do I swear feasts, nevermore
  Than when I was dead, when eyes more blessed have seen.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounty of thy love.
Now let me be obsequious, for fear of spoils I will say,
And yet all my riches be mine,
Even so as thou dost give to my will.
Therefore my widow shall not be thy critic,
Nor her husband nor children nor my love shall comment;
Both husband and wife shall be praised,
And husband and wife shall in praise be praised,
And husband and wife shall play the part.
  Then, of thyself I am thine,
  And husband and wife in praise be praised.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hung with all my might, yet unset,
To leap the gaudy distance where thou art.
Ah, yet thou hast not, mine eye hath heard the neigh of the day,
And my heart hath found the desired sound.
It hath heard the moan of the maiden rose,
And from thy breast the contracted moan of the wombs.
Ah, yet this thy praise; yet my heart hath heard it
And found it thy praise of thy worth.
  Ah, yet this thy abundance and this thy love's content
  Make thy verse more rare than mine.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou look on my outward form thou see,
And that thou hast full control over my heart,
Then I cannot blame thee for my sin
When in thy body thou dost lie,
Or else blame me for thy sins thou hast committed.
Thou canst not be blamed for what thou dost do,
Unless thou approve my going home.
I am thy self, and thou that have thy self make
This very clear verse:
  Thou who art my body, that thou mayst forgive my sins.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They perceive what is concealed therein;
They respect that which is best shows.
So thou shalt not be so kind as to my mind,
As methinks thou shalt by thy deeds deceive.
Thou art so kind-hearted, being thy advocate,
That I in thy deeds am thy advocate's guest.
So thou shalt be thine alone, mine eyes for thy sight,
Myself for thyself to speak,
For thou in them hath no part.
  But to speak of thy good deeds speak of mine,
  Since mine eyes for thy good show thee not how to show me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That through virtuous action must she upbraves,
To steal thy beauty's name from me.
I do believe she lived among the sun's scythe
And doth beauty's willful conspire mock,
Robbing her beauty with false compare.
I do believe she never lived with thy beauty's eye,
When to disgrace my love's brow thou shouldst pay.
Yet yet love's love hath not lived with my love's eye,
  Which conquest of beauty's brow thou shouldst pay.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Drink not thy cup nor my wit;
Make no slander of mine own show,
Richer than mine own desert,
As I by thy behavior am fond of praising.
And yet thy great love is more heinous
Than mine own desert's, and I farther off repent.
Richer than mine own desert is my love,
Richer than thy love's presence on my cheek is,
Richer than thy barren moan on mine ear.
  But love, be more than tongue to me;
  I love thee in such sort as thy praise breeds.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too well
My deepest sympathies.
When thou art all the world's best at a given task,
Then my nerves will bear the burden of that task,
And I in general will be grieved at thy
Doubting that thou mayst come home and make me liker.
Thou mayst by time come true to my acquaintance,
And then my sorrows will bear their name;
And then, if they arise, they will be mourners
And all the world's best at a given sorrow.
  Such is my love and thy worth.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their love is best expressed in my heart.
Thee have I not seen dully to the mountain tops,
Nor seen that form of the sea that doth under heaven form;
Nor know that thou dost call it shore, since it doth stay where thou art.
Nor know that I love thee in such sort
As, 'tis well with my tongue to say my name;
But be most proud of that which I bring forth.
  For thou art my all the world, and I shall see,
  And in all the kingdoms that inhabit thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The true love of thine own show,
That my unfairness in thy sight
Is allayed when thy fair show doth appear.
O, but with mine own compare thou dost compare,
As mine own fair is thine,
When fairs have but thy fair advantage;
And thus thou prove'st the wits of thy state.
  To lose thy fair state is to lose all respect.
  This I do vow, and this shall ever be:
  If thou survive my judgment, all my love will be restored.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She lays waste the herd, full of her herd,
And stores up the herd's waste,
Making huge lengths of miles to catch another,
Making large numbers of them, to transport her back
To where mother nature made so strong.
And, for her waste, cruel sport,
The one sad victor is victor'
And bears the proud title of swift-footed coward.
  But, for her pride, cruel sport,
  All men are fools and so are women.

