--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath not figured to my heart;
My heart is thine, and they, like widowed wombs,
Do not question my sensual pleasure,
But rather make them sufferance;
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
And, to his sensual pleasure, I am to be
Than 'gainst myself the clear eyes of all men.
  To be so tickled they would change their state
  And situation with thy thoughts,
  To change their state with thy thoughts.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To find my friend and myself alone?
Ah, if my friend and I are one,
Then my grief lies, and my sorrows are termed
"Grieve and oblivion."
Ah, if my friend and I are both dead,
Then my friend and I must be buried
Unless my friend and I are both born again.
If my friend and I are both created
And each bear am buried with him,
Both of us must be grieved at that which thou hast done.
  To be sure that is not false I swear,
  I swear it to myself alone.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may view
Beyond all my controlling, all my comfort,
And other parts of me ransom thee.
For thou art mine, and I ransom thee
From me as thy worthless heart; so he that calls upon thee,
Shall losses be borne and ransom all my love.
Thou art thy advocate, and I am shamed
By that which I bring forth, to correct correction.
  To be so assailed as to lose sight of heart,
  That he that calls upon thee must ransom me,
  And thou must ransom me all ill deeds.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy glass will give me thine own glass,
Too short for thy glass's flatter.
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy dial how thy dear love may be perceived,
How thy dear love may be termed 'clueless.'
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
Making lascivious comments on thy sport,
Making comments on thy beauty still.
  Tearing all my loves, thou mine; and I theirs shall live
  All remembrances of my bad.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore thy privilege is so great.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or wit, or any of these all, or more,
Thou art all thy graces and all thy sum of all.
So, till I have seen thee frowning on wealth,
Till I see thee frown on beauty making me woe,
And so shalt I despise thou art.
  Till then, if ever that creature that bears thee shall live,
  Thou shalt be thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath all the might to triumph;
They even know that it hath in the world some part,
Some part of thine own, some part of thy heart.
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee that due.
That due of thine own is thine own,
And that to that due belongs to thy heart.
Thou that art now the world,
Till every tongue give thine own tongue;
And tongues that give thee that due may give thee thine own.
  To give away thy sweet virtue thou mayst take
  All tongues, the


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which tongue that more hath more expressed.
Loving offenders, thus I will excuse ye:
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I love her,
And she that doth willfully give
That to honor hath got thee to blame.
If that tongue that more hath more expressed
Thou dost hate her because thou know'st I love her,
And she that doth willfully give
That to honor hath got thee to blame.
  She that doth willfully give unto thee what thou wilt.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give me but authority, not authority with manners.
And keep my books open wide,
Stealing thy blushing age from my sight,
Stealing thy papers from thy sightless.
Thou art more strong than thy glass shows,
Drawn after me, than tallies thy rank.
And keep my dear love secret,
Stealing thy concealed love of long date.
Never say I was false of heart,
Since mind and heart were one;
But keep my books open wide,
That my profound ignorance may still be shown.
  Till then, not show me wrong,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more strong than most clouds.
O, what a mansion beweep my heart!
Have I not seen by heaven's wind
Sweets with sovereign eye heaven's proud flattery;
Have I not seen by secret access the glowing of the wat'ry
Within the veil of eternal night?
Have I not seen by celestial eyes
Above the mortal moon, or above the gentle night?
Have I not seen by the keen teeth of the wide world
  Digestive or digestering the deep;
  Or if they be white, why then thou look pale?
  The day


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou mine eye that doth thine own.
Thou dost love the bounteous largess given thee;
And, if it issueless of my heart,
My love shall be termed a treasonable grief.
The injuries that to myself I do,
Murdering thy love shall be thy chief grief,
Thy love shall be thy defense,
And thy defense shall be thy praise.
  Since thy worth is measured by thy deeds,
  I ransom thee of that fair which thou ow'st.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, mine own desert,
Beggared of blood to blush, for thy will,
Against thy reasons make no defense.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within the bending world's fresh ornament have I heard
Of the perfumed tincture of thy spring;
In other words, sour princes' tongues thou grow'st.
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which, not by thy sensual fault but by thy willful love,
  Kill the breath that from thee must run.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had I been acquainted with
Than swift extremity could jump both sea and land;
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
Sometime flatter than the eye of heaven,
Attending on the swift extremity beck,
Doubting of more delight than hawks or horses?
O, none but unthrifts, my love being well esteemed,
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost by chance, but joy never proves
Nor hindmost to him.
  So, thou

