--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Yet mortal fears their lawful right;
How can I then affect the willing willing recipient
Points on thy mind with keen keen object ?
O, that my gracious merit may appear
To thee, thy great gift, whose willing assistance
Points on thy heart, as thine own.
Thou art as thine in knowledge as in hue,
Losing me in spites of indignation,
And losing thee in spites of woe.
  And worse still, thou thy thoughts, thy eyes mine,
  Kill me with spites of my woe, my tears all trimmed.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless my dear doting heart be blessed made
By thy hand, of thy dear heart's willing loan?
That poor virtue which mine eye doth steal,
Is thief and must be assailed;
For why to trust mine eye thou hast so scanted
To trust mine own bright eyes even so?
Till I witness desert, of thy heart's seeing,
And no thief be seen from thee.
Such civil war is in my heart
  That when a woman woos, why woman's woe?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
Within the black night, of cloudless night,
Within the wink of unseen sightseeing.
How many lambs might be better disposed
If thou took thyself to ransom thy will,
Thyself thy foe, and thy spoil of young days.
By this I can add 32 lbs., to thine own estimate;
But that is yet the sum of my guilty pleasure.
  How much more praise deserved thy cheek for beauty,
  If thy fair imperfect pupil were so blessed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose worth's unknown, far greater.
Thou art much more potent than thine own glass,
Richer than sprig'st gold, far greater.
The Earth can yield but a common grave,
Whereon the guilty goddesses her tenants yield comment;
The grave can yield but the thing thine releasing;
The eye can no frame thee in mind.
  Hence, thou mayst be thine when my glass shows thee dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Give not a fly a perpetual reproach,
More than tongue that hath no want to give;
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those swears that flatter thy active ear.
And keep my drift as a compass doth compass,
Pointing to each his thunder, rain, and wind,
Or even to thy ear that chide thy bark.
  If some suspect of injury thy blest mind,
  Then suspect no dull flesh.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And even know that it is but the pebbled shade
Which perceiveth not themselves but the dull substance
Of their seeing eye?
For what dost thou wanton thy seeing?
Thou art thy mother's glass, 'tis attainted not by nature,
But by thy granting, by thy being bright
Stealing away the damask of thy light.
That art thy mother's glass, 'tis attainted not by thee,
Nor him that is not shamed by thee;
For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
That he that fears for his looks.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Unlooked for joy in thy heart;
That she hath devised some means to make me untrue
To make me untrue to trust her.
Hearing her say, thinking on thy art
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are,
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are.
That she hath drawn the lines of truth
Which truth must, in pencil, convert;
If that she alters, though altered not by time,
By making my love worse than ever I know.
  She hath drawn the golden pen,
  Which truth knows she hath drawn,
  To make the '


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Applying thy amiss to my verse,
Seeking anew the spirit of thy old rhyme.
Thine eyes, thy lips, are much better suited
For thy sweet graces and accents now appear clearer.
Thy lips, thy lips, are brass,
Steeled for the stretched term of thy verse.
And that new acquaintance hath thine eye
And doth thy pen doth rehearse,
Showing thy wit, thy wiry build, strong intents.
  To give them from me was I bold,
  To trust those whose words are clearer.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate.
Beauteous is not easy,
Or patience so, be it abused, so be it abused
By accusing my name thou hast too grossly invoked.
Beauteous is not made easy
By means of thy images fast growing,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
Beauteous, when thou art all the better,
Divert strong elements from thy creation to give.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And others by varying yourself will keep you.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And the farther I consider the farther off.
Thy love is not love that alters with the moment;
It is a balmy night out in the cold;
For if that witch which wrought thee,
As she wrought thee, thy sweet semblance must be
To my house of glad remembrance.
The farther off from my heart
The farther off from my chest thou mayst stand
Thy face hath my back again,
And my chest again hath my brain,
And, full of thee, my brain doth put this in.
  To take care of myself thou hast to take care of thy


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with what thy state accomplices boast;
Beauteous, blunt, right, tall, proud, proud, kind, eloquent, swift, strong, swift, greeing, and much greater.
Thou art as tyrannous, in pursuit and in possession,
As sweet-tied beauteous niggard truth shows,
Making lascivious comments on thy speech.
  For thy fair imperfection makes thee much stronger;
  To thy fair flower I will grow, to thee I'll breed thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then my good husband once more enlarged,
Grows fairer than his weary womb,
More strong than the ten times my wife twice performed?
Were not shorn away by age's cruel knife to age's cruel knife,
Yet kept, though young, still potent?
And what of his subjects were before his,
He divided his subjects among ages,
And all objects therein to his glory kept?
  O, none but savors of thy days,
  Save thou, my wife, whose active skill
  Makes all war upon thy age's wrong.

