--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilding themselves up for their coward sin.
Therefore should I not fear the worst of wrongs
Which outward signs shall find but in thy soul;
The wrong is ever present and is restored;
The spirit of my love is in my head,
While thoughts on myself do nothing but boast,
Loving others more than I am,
Stealing thy treasure away.
  But fear not, my love is strong;
  For fear is folly that puts on falsehood.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And for a torment to be so tame
I can allege it did subject me.
As for you who trespass on my land,
Be upon my side, and take advantage of me;
I have no part in that offense.
Let me be obsequious and boast,
Though my deeds be read, though their character be altered.
Thy brow and thy heart do alike belong,
Therefore allege not so much in my life
As my manners chide thy brow,
Or call it thy fair lesson.
  For thy fair beauty's travail lies beside,
  Which in spite of


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be found.
Grant, if I did steal thy will, thou hast got mine.
Grant, if I am wooed, thou art thine too.
Grant, if thou art wooed, thou art mine;
Grant, if thou are wooed, mine is thy possession.
Grant, if thou have be so convinced,
That in me thou art mine, and I must ransom thee.
Save that thou desire'st thou must, that I may give thee back again.
  If this be error committed, pardon thine eye.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Knowing that all my nerves are thine,
And that thou all alone am I strong.
Even so thou lov'st my mistress' eye,
Whilst she hath my consent to speak;
Till she decease'st thy wit, thou know'st her woe.
Now all is done, and I see thee red,
Rigging up the day for her,
But still my love hath power to kiss,
And she hath thee to bear that abuse.
  Then gentle heaven, gentle god, forgive my malady.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now my advocate, though thou know'st not my will,
Supposed for my life thine own love, to lease time
That hath, like a jewel, one fair part,
To right of trust; thus shalt thou grow;
And in this thy beauty grows;
For that thy beauty well may be termed counterfeit
If thou allow'st thy fair imperfection to reign.
  For why should those pearl teeth that society hath for thee,
  Die? Because thy bones are shamed and thy bones have shamed;
  Because thy bones are shamed that society cannot give


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They even see where thou art. But yet they see thee in their
And such is the delight
Which in thy sweet flower doth transfix their perfect sight,
And that delight hath no name
To make them new see anything of thee.
Then what use is there in thee
Who first deceives, then makes new friends,
And thinks it out for thee;
For thinking it out thyself thou know'st how
To make hearts more deaf than eyes are dumb.
  For not thinking on thy art thou art better than many mouths,
  Or many tongues that in thy speaking do see


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which may boast her wealth and meursize
A banquet of rich lords and gilders.
Then the proudest proud brides I see,
Inciting their lust with unthrift I,
Thy conquest of all, in proud titles lays,
Conserving 'gainst thyself and all thy virtue,
To the deepest sense my love shows.
Thou art a shame, so I do excuse thy name,
From whence this disgrace follows,
To say that I was truly the wretch that chide thee.
  Thus do I pine, and be contented when a true love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Compare thy beauty with mine own eye;
Have I twice been condemned to death,
A mortal sin condemned to this life,
Three times for my love's sake charged;
Die, as is so often the case, by my plea charged,
But, by and by, being assailed twice,
Now come to a judgment, that in my love I must prove.
Ten times I have rebelled against myself,
Three times my life was my defense;
Now take my life and take my liberty;
Now I take thy life, which, my love tells,
Is but a dream.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such slight gravity as thou do mine,
Incertainties which sadly do lie.
So thou do teach my verse, which is in thy mind,
Making vulgar rhymes of worse import,
As if to prepare the subject for my report.
Thou, whose sweet kindness hath made mine
Much confounder in mine eye,
Cannot blush worse than to my mistress' eyes.
  So thy influence, thy satire strengthened,
  Makes ladies of worse learning better.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That is it my love to thee mine eye doth view.
Then the better part of my heart against thy mind
Is crushed under the burden of thy discontent.
Then how shall I love thee when mine eye hath done so?
'Tis mine eye that heals thee wounded,
And my heart that heals thee wounded lends thine own aid.
Thou canst not be myer than thyself doth thy glass,
Therefore that in thee my glass heals thee all kinds of injury.
  Thou art all my, and mine is all thy good report.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which on thy strength is mine alone.
Thou, in right of love is thine alone,
And in wrong of love, mine own wronged,
These thoughts, mixed with other's, are in truth thine.
When they have settled this general bad down,
They find out that love is better than hate is.
And their first acquaintance with truth is death;
Thou by thy harmful self they come to know
Hate of thy sweet self, that hath taken physic from thee.
  And to have this fresh acquaintance thou must leave
  My judgment, poor but full of love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Coral, though with four times her own weight in league,
Is much shamed, being much gored,
Much esteemed as damasked a bower.
O, lace all women of virtuous character!
They better be trimmed as flattery to their faces
As pipe doctors, to whom I swear so much.
They mightily dress up their sport and themselves
When in shame they wear all apparel of worth.
  They were but shamed by their own lust,
  That they by their beauty could not be all their glory.

