--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of worth and beauty's use.
Then, be praised of worth, if not be praised,
By not making me first your be praised,
I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to be praised of worth and beauty's use their treasure.
For to be praised of worth and beauty's use their treasure
At such who, not for their rhyme,
But for their theft, in their pride lies buried.
  The worth of that is that which it contains,
  And that is this, and this with thee remains.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose my friend's place, and that friend hath found a very woe;
And that friend's still with my friend's doth lie.
That friend, though in my friend's shape,
Doubting the present-absent with burden.
For if my friend's muse
Hath put forth, and I lose her,
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than of hearsay well, poor but free,
If not forced, by thy sweet self-love to change my mind.
  To give full growth to that which I lose,
  And that fresh


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
He may not evermore acknowledge me,
My name be thy fair, which in thy humor doth depend.
He may still be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself dost dispense.
I do forgive him for that which he doth forgive,
Although thou repent to him that I do forgive him,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself dost dispense.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill him with spites, yet we


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in the least of them my pleasure hath my under truest bars to thrust.
Thou mayst true love call my love's use
And in guess they err I not be called fond,
Although thou thy love is still my argument,
And in guess they err I am too slow
To be the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than when they err I bring forth
More than that level
To be thy love's fine wit.
  To be their tenth muse, ten times more in worth
  Than any other's dumb song.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason why should I not say so,
When I may not evermore acknowledge thee?
Thou canst not be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself dost dispense.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their drooping glass doth take,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And in their gazing for a look they viewest
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And for they see, they look for joy
At first the very least of them.
Then, if they see the very same,
They say that thee, the world, which is not love to me,
  Even as they that churl, this gives thee hope


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that thee behold her,
Then look I death my days should expiate,
For still with all her fading hours,
The world dreaming on thee will come and take my love away,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
As interest of the dead, which now appear
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of her lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
  The grave where buried


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
Yet in this let us divided live
And our dear love lose name of single one,
That by this separation I may give
That due of many a thing I can say.
I lose thee that which I lose her,
And that her loss is what she hath lose, and me lose her,
And that her loss is what she hath had gain;
  She may lose her and me lose her and yet lose her;
  Thou mayst lose her and yet lose her.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
In wanting words to be more than sweet,
Lest I in my verse should bear.
O, what excuse will my poor beast then find
When in thy name of goodly pride doth tie,
So that we in love's sweetest righ
Shall neigh no dull flesh in his fiery race.
But if we wilt be wracked, by thy gentle numbers,
Then by thy gentle numbers, by thy gentle pen doth take.
  And if they be wacked, by thy tables,
  The tables, by thy revolt,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love doth share a part.
I grant, sweet boy, thy love is but as fair,
Finding thy love more weak in my mind than in my heart.
I grant, boy, that thy love is more strong,
And in my verse of well-refined pen.
I grant, boy, that love is faire in my verse
And in thy love more than high birth to thee.
  Then may I not evermore acknowledge thee,
  Since, all things turns now unto me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Do not compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
And though they be outstripped by each,
Resembling sire and child and happy mother
Who are both in one, one pleasing issue.
Both truth and beauty on my love depends;
So, like those who are in thee,
I must be thy love, and in thee are both.
  Then, if they live and die, and I live and die,
  The world will wail thee and


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do not kill her with spites,
If for my sake do please these curious days,
But do not kill her with spites,
If for my sake lay on her head,
She may still seem gentle to me,
Although I kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
And yet do not kill her with spites,
Harshing her, and doing her shame.
  Yet do not kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
  Which,

