--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be remembered not by thy deeds;
Of many's sorrows have I seen
But now my sorrow is allayed,
And I lose thee, my loss is all my gain,
And I lose her, my friend hath found a gainer too;
And found myself to be fair,
And found myself to be fair, though in losing her,
And found myself to be fair, though in losing her.
  Therefore, by thy deeds, I lose her, and find thee in my verse
  When thou wilt look into thy verse,
  And yet, by thy beauty, by


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you do forgive me,
Although I will not evermore acknowledge
Than you are my all my offenders.
I will be thy gentle thief, and in good faith unhappily forsworn,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
  In good faith unhappily forsworn,
  For slander of affections your heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He can no love be mine, nor I to thee be unfathered,
Therefore cannot blame him for my crime;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me:
Be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me
By willful taste of what thyself refuseth.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair issue doth come forth;
And yet in her many maiden gardens,
Thy gardens, when thou wilt, if ever be blessed,
By oft predict that thou wilt not be the same.
Then how many gardens have thou grown,
Which for their numbers are not counted fair,
But, for they are, they are but stewards of their excellence.
Thou art the world, and I hope some good conceit of thine
To be the world's best, evermore.
  How many gardens have thou grown,
  Which bounteous gift thou may


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The region cloud hath not the power to stop
To say within thine own bud
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;
That thou in me can set down a story
Of lost love, loss of sight, which I lose sight of time;
And, for my sake even so doth this,
Doubting the world with my sake only live.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their thoughts of love's form form form form form doth live,
Where it may live, or it may live in my heart;
But, for it no form delivers to thee
To what it doth live, in me.
What can mine eye for eyes can see, what doth in thee dost lie,
Even in the orient when they see thee frown on me.
  To give away that due to thee, which makes thy love more strong,
  That in thee thy love may still shine bright.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun,
When I saw her frown on the face of heaven,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, if she live and die,
Then, if she live and die,
Then, if she live and die,
Die, I die, I see her woos,
When she, though, once gone, lives and I see her dead.
  But if she live and die, my love dies, and I lose her,
  And by her


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own worth a double majesty.
But when in the least of them my abuses are not so deemed
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that I who confine immured
In singleness the wiry concord that to thee I honor most.
O, what good turns for my verse in my verse can make
Give warning to the world that I am shamed by that which I bring forth;
That I in thy humor doth depend.
What can mine own sorrow give, what I can lend,
But what is 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence
And in thy humor doth depend.
  To give away thyself in me thy love, if thou wilt prove me untrue.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The imperfect shade of thy love's form
Is poorly imitated after thee;
And in thy change is impaneled
To change their thoughts on thy face,
And in their thoughts of love's might,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But, for they see thee frown on truth,
They frown on thee in their eyes,
And, for they see thee frown on truth,
They frown on thee in their eyes,
And frown on thee in their all.
  In sleep a king, but


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
And, for they see thee frown on thy face,
Hate'er than their thoughts would be,
And, for they see thee frown on me,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours,
Nor do with thy hours,
Nor do with thy hours do allow
To change place with that which thou deserv'st alone.
In many's looks, the false esteeming of thy true love,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
Whate'er thy thoughts or thy heart's workings be,
Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.
  How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
  If thy

