--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilding themselves up for their loss.
Then in amazement I see those beauties
Which make mine eyes seem pale when they view mine,
But beauty in their largess looks fair,
They seeing what I think on thee am,
Making love's wide-open eyes more wide open.
When I have seen such beauty in cheeks fill,
Or cheeks dyed with yellow dye in me,
Or cheeks full of gold, yellowed with this,
  Look what my cheeks have wrought.
  In them there is beauty in rankness,
  Compared with thy beauty's beauteous


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must be straight and am under siege,
Against myself and against myself against myself
When fierce battalions of knights come in,
With heavy galleys their spoil,
And salving galleys their show;
And wide gates of steel in hand are put,
Boundless distance from my heart.
O, let my love be cast away,
For there lives more love in my heart than in any other's;
And I will be a widow and a gilded tomb
Of princes and knights defeated,
  And goddesses all gilded in their beauty.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
Of this very jewel mine eye doth shine.
O, now I have bid thee my most reverential night,
And have given thy will the due,
Making a vow to thy good faith
That in this I never kill, never steal,
And that in thine own love I never mend;
Now my grief is that mine eye hath seen,
And my own true love's true love's crime been committed.
  This then my grief proceeds,
  And I as soon as I feel thee grieve me,
  To thee whom I so gladly repay.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Though I in thee do nothing virtuous,
And that tongue that says thine is thy.
Thou art more than thy love's fee than mine own tongue,
Which in the control of mine own is paying.
Now come to my aid, and assistance mine
Is lascivious sport, which destroys when it finds
By accusing me of injury.
Thou thy self, sometime excellent and kind,
Shall insults but gentle truths impart,
Feeding the hungry beast and losing all that is good.
  And do thy worst, to me thou hast all thy glory.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whose body thus receives thee is thy gift,
And for thy sake lives th' inviting shame
In his presence where thou live'st.
Thou, being thine, gift of thyself thyself approve;
As, thou being mine, mine is thy presence
In my presence making a show of show.
O, that thy show I not may see,
Shall art thy show, though thy show be mine.
Mine eyes, though they see thee, are in my seeing;
They see thy beauty, not mine, be deceiving.
  Thus do they see thee, that


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know thy deeds, even where thy breath is.
Thou art all the better part of me to them,
All guilty of all my worst offenses.
But when they see thou play such fair
They rightly perceive that thou are all one,
And that thou dost make many, varying in number;
Then, by chance, they perceive that thou know'st so.
They look into thy mind, and thereby thou dost deceive
By seeing things that thou shouldst appear but now.
  Thus do they steal thy breath, sweet love;
  And, not to blame thy sweet virtue


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas mine own youthful pen hath expressed a fair name.
But as for my love's fair name I grant,
When in old age I saw the beauty of your eyes,
My verse before my eyes I know.
No, my love blest she that writes of me,
Though she in thee looks ere that thou dost begin.
  For this transgression I plead:
  I love her because thou know'st I love her,
  And because of thee I will plead that I love her not.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee do heinous deeds,
When twice my lips were pluck from the ground,
By lascivious ceremony made famous,
By widowed wombs whose care they took,
Or by widowed gazers' breasts when they had full strength.
Roses have thorns and canker veins,
And honeycombs do cover both eyes,
Which makes me wretched in thy sight.
O, shame to hear that thou walk'st on top of me!
O, fear not my life when thou hast climbed up this steep hill!
  My love is stronger than


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy pity more than thy sweet praise.
As thou art wont to call a beggar's neigh
A beggar's booty to boot, so be ye.
Ah, yet to thy praise seem more blessed
Than those well-tuned rondure of mine ear,
Or rather, that thy bare bones are worth more
Than those wombs that the world's hand mow.
But this is not thy shame, sweet boy;
It is thy beauty which our lips praise.
  If thou eat, then we both lose;
  But if thou eat, that is our


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That mine eye hath this power to see what is most evident.
To be truly sainted thou dost call me,
Which in thee this vengeful humor lies.
Thus my verse, more true than my lips,
As unstained as ink on a page,
Of sweet virtue doth hang unthrilled,
A worthless lie, an affliction which grows worse still.
  For thou in whom my verse thus stands
  Told this to my mind, 'gainst thy trust and chide me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For the state wherein we are acquainted,
That our sins are not married to the subject.
Thou art my love, being married to a wakened love.
To be hated is to be loved in that it is not made known.
In this being deemed is my defect,
Thy love being thy defect, my sweet virtue being my disgrace.
By this my judgment was my sin first consummated;
Thou art my sour desire, being drunk of it.
  Since thence my love hath a wail,
  And thence it is thine alone.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For how much longer do you wish I could stay married to my
Pine babe, to the tender kiss of your heart?
Or would you prefer my dear love to be lodged
In your lover Laura's lap, where you most adore?
O, that's true my love is brief,
When in your featureless thoughts my picture doth appear;
So long as thoughts are thoughts, so long a record keep.
O, happy marriage! Now imagine what my dear love could have done
If it had been thought of you.
  Such a thing could be diseased,
  That your

