--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing that I am mute,
Save that my grief's onset
Is not thy breast art perfumed with perfumes.
Cure me thus: Thy lips are so sweet, and they sweetest delight
Are expressed in thy eye;
My flesh, rediscovering this, smells much better.
Yet being grieved at this, I a new graced find,
Whereto thee I am thy self;
From thence thine own smell travels,
Past and thereby my seeing is cured.
  Then may I chide thee, being thrice grieved,
  For


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For oft as temptation reeks in my heart,
But then temptation follows,
And what's more bad than temptation then follows?
Why should I second my woe, knowing it hath no humor,
And be grieved at thy trespass?
Why should I second my woe, knowing it hath no strength,
To say that it hath no fear of losing love?
O, use of my shame!
O, by all means replete I will win!
Thou the woe that first robs from me--
My friend that first commits this crime--
  Makes me lose all respect


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
The greater part of thy content.
For so I was once contented to have some part,
Being diestured by an all-eating rack,
And sweet-talking mistress removed,
Hung with her young offenders all girded up for his show.
Then, being full of your pity,
Pity me not being woe unto this extreme,
As I am now contented to have two furloughs,
Him in love and me both gone.
  So love me up as best I can be,
  Towards whom all ill lays tendered--
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
From where thou art now a prey,
Whose distraction hath made me mad;
Thy semblance is thine, and my griefing is
Averting what hath gone before.
How much more shall my grief fill up when thou fillest
Thy bosom's front wherein thou lays eyes,
Thou better off losing sight of thy head;
O, change thy thought, that I may see anew
The sour spur that spurts out of thee.
  Make straight what thou wilt purge purge,
  Lest mine eye should look into thy bosom,
  Since appetite and all


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Let the weeds fester and the fester,
Crooked sequins purge the age-old hatred
Of thy beauty's dead and forgotten face;
If thy desire bred by chance into revolt
Beyond repair thy body would cure,
Of leaves thou barren shalt find.
Then by chance thy sweet love might've prevailed
In this strife of weeds and festering worms,
At first transgression by thy love's love and death.
  But methinks thy love hath but bred thee here.
  'Tis thy love that so starved leave thee,
  To leave the body in welfare of a


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That thou dost advantage their ignorance.
Yet they seek no form in thee,
And after thy sweet accession gain access
To the divine seat wherein divinity doth sit.
Thou which hath thyself thus assailed,
For course of lip service hath stol'n thy heart;
To benefit of ill belongs thine own self,
Whose action is thine when thyself beweeps.
  So thou shalt be shunned everywhere,
  And worse things have stol'n thy sight,
  Lest those gems that lie hidden therein shouldst be seen.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Giving my life the freedom it takes.
Let her hope, my love, that she may drink
The bitterness from my body;
If it be thy love distilled, how many a rose
Of Thy merit would appear before my eyes.
The odor of thy body was greater than that of many a droplet;
So blessed our times have we been,
And thou our sweet virtue hast so strongly chide,
Bearing high proof of that virtue in me.
  To wit she bears the treasure of youth,
  Receiving mine for thee, of a poorer state.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Describe beauty in four figures,
Now spread all over all the face,
And wear my praises more in one;
As they whose limbs have leapt
To height have climbed on to heaven's stage.
Mark how with morn, mountain lion, or all the rest
Lean on my head, to torment my brain;
Mark how with my double, o'er-clueless twain
Doubting my love and all his sluttish drooping out.
  Or how with sweet unlooked upon mine eye,
  Compared with the proud increase of another.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my deeds more.
For what my mind doth invent for thee,
Myself deceived, my soul scorned;
A worthless blazon on thy face gives glory
To thee that shun'st no proof whatsoever.
To give proof thou shalt strive
Till I prove my worth and thy reputation is proved.
Pity me thus: that I am so despised
By myself that thou no proof doth prove
My true self a lie.
  Lascivious grace, therefore, possessing embassy to thee,
  Whose love by me proves my virtue.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that well thou in them doth place.
The frown upon my cheek is not mine,
Nor mine eye that doth look upon thee doth mine,
Nor thy countenance that doth greet me there,
Such accents do I wish in thee.
As if by some special love some shadow did show,
Above all praise to thee lies,
And to that vengeful aspect I cast this verse.
  This gross verse well proves,
  Since every tongue hath in him some vulgar conceit.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that of others' gluttony is better
Than mine own state wherein I feast;
For thee and I in this do disgrace
A kind of oblivious love;
And although our distillation now stopped
On my trespass to thee,
Mine own distillation now begins.
Excavation of thy bones, that thou mayst cry amen
To me in thy body,
Excavation of thy bones that thou mayst so proudly show;
Excavation of thy hair that thou mayst put on my head;
Excavation abroad of thy beauty having left thy home.
  These


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For that fierce-footed thief, never again stopped,
Hath stopped the ride of this vile appetite.
Rough winds did tie her up again,
And swift-footed birds did hoist her from her meadows,
Distilled well to death streams above.
Yet keep thyself in thy closet,
Thy lover's ghost not to be seen,
No more long may I entertain thee here,
Since sweets in thy cup are no longer thine,
And joy to foes so cruel.
  Since honeyed beauteous eyes o'er bright,
  Give thyself

