--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And brass tresses themselves with brass,
Hiding thy revolt with thine own eyes.
Thou art better than poor murd'rous shame, being frank,
For I am fairest than thy dear love is,
Beggared of thine own wights, to whom thou art grieved.
And that shall be thy report, not mine own,
Beggared of thyself thou art;
That this thy report may be abused,
And my bad, being vile, shall be thine.
  And that this thy report shall be, and my bad shall be all wrong.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am to trust no man well of trust?
Be thou my friend, my foe thou art.
Be thou my all the world, my globe,
And my dear-purchased confound
In thy friends' veins thou art.
That is to my world as the ocean is,
Not for my comfort, though my heart beweep it,
Or poor me, to whom thou art.
  For thee, against myself I'll run,
  Or besiege thy bow, or thy knife, to be used
  As thou art.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will happiastically depart.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
We are new to thee, and therefore he is wont
To tell o'er the old story of thy days,
Speaking of his pyramids built up with thyself's might;
He tells of sweet beauty and me of dread,
Though I tell o'er the old story well.
  To him I honor thy worth,
  Since what worth hath 'gainst thee, and what worth doth lie.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath ranged, and I am to complain
At that which violates thy will.
Thou art as tyrannous, know'st to cruelt,
As those jacks that niggardly leap to niggard leave
Unlooked for treasure, as those jacks that look
For treasure in thy bosom's shop, but that thy will be thy feature
Of thine own deep-sunken comfort.
  To thee I witness call thine own bright eyes
  Which bright eyes better see farther than the dark night.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much farther off from home than high noon,
And therefore thy doth lie,
Beggared of thy shame and boast,
Like bett'ring a beggar, though not so thy beauteous boast.
Richer than thy shame and boast, be it not said
To say thou art too fair an eye
For comfort of heart, to whom thou art so strongly knit.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thy brav'ry is virtuous slander.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for the faintest thou know'st,
They even know what shade doth beautify;
They even know what to thy heart doth hide,
Which, converted from the thing it was,
Mightst thou among the vilest worms ever dwell?
Till thou, thy sweet self, from thy sweet self growest,
Beauteous niggard truth to trust;
And, to trust thyself thou art strongly knit.
  Make thee a widow; my love mayst not be taken
  Unless thou take that away.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who art so possessed of sweet beauty still,
That her dear love may yet seem enlarged.
Ah, but those blenches that my heart cannot mend
To those blenches that my heart can mend.
Look what an enlarged pen hath writ to thee
He robs thee of and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He lends thee virtue only to his subjects,
So that in paying for thee he mayst prove thee virtuous.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee smiling before?
Ah, if thou art so blessed in thy art,
Then why dost thou use
So great a penance to write
To prove me untrue, in thy heart's right?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times happier than
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
Thou art more churl, gentler, and more temperate
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth.
  Then believe me, my love is stronger than spurring to his


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art much too broad.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore to thy use commends.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
He that calls on thee let him bring forth Time's spoils,
Since, thou being a hindmost muse, I'll let him bring forth
Even more wondrous numbers to outlive long date


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou my being, suborned to that hate.
Thou art as assailed, I contend,
As those assailed who plead for thee;
I will myself believe thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report;
Thou art much too excellent a witness
To trust those blenches that sourly bow,
Whose eyes, when thou sourly bow,
Till they have found thy sweet virtue.
  Their gross malady is that which thou taste:
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well well shows.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the farthest soil removed from thee.
That sin, though slight, is much greater.
Thou canst not, being old, make us venge
Against thy reasons, to whom thou dost call friends,
Beggared of thy sweet self, to whom thou dost confound.
How can I then be elder than thou art?
O, know, sweet love, that thy sweet self still may live young.
  If that be error, my love may be more heinous.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But thou, to thy sensual tender she'll bear all charge;
And thou that own sweet virtue encloses
In kindred lines of thine own sweet husband.
How much more praise deserved thy worth give
If thou couldst answer "This fair child of mine
Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse,"
Proving a bliss in thy heart
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow.
  This thought kills me that I am old,
  That thou canst not pity her, that she may profit thee.

