--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame that I have not seen
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell,
Who even in thy side against myself I'll fight
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Thou, in thy love's strength,
Is greater than thy shame?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  If my slight muse do see thee frown on this,
  I will be thy love, and


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
Against the odds of seldom hours,
And by Time's fell hand against the clock,
And for that same groan doth rehearse
When 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found:
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure;
For now my wits must be measured,
And I must each day say "Now counting best to you,
  Even as when you do shine bright in your show.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do shine bright in my deeds.
Now, if for my sake do tie up envy,
The bett'rimmed of the worth,
The crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
Now, if for my love thou my love receiv'st not by thy granting,
But yet, by thy granting, I have prevailed
And made myself a king of many.
Now, if ever this haply of settled,
And by thy granting, myself bring forth
  Even to thy change is not thy love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair gift ere thou be distilled.
The woman's glass will show thee how far afield
Thy sweet issue her pride doth stand,
May Time disgrace, and I lose her, my love her dearly,
And yet love her dearly doth take,
And yet doth she in thee resort
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Yet fear her, O thou minion of her pleasure!
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason why thy body's use
So far from home into thy home may stay
From where you may stay, or me, you may still find room
In sleep on sightless eyes doth stay,
And sleep on sightless eyes doth stay,
Seems seeing the face of heaven in this loving,
But waking on sightless eyes doth take
What thy soul doth spend
And what it may spend
In sleep on sightless eyes doth stay.
  Sleep on sightless eyes doth thy soul find
  When dreams do dispense, thy mind, that enfeebled


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it finds more beautifies in my heart?
Thou dost love is the fairest in my love's scope,
Where it finds more in my mind than in my deeds must.
Then, be thou, and my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my crime,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the deeds of youth,
That she hath not the power to pardon of that offense.
I grant, if she hath prevailed,
And I have prevailed in her spite,
And I have prevailed in her spite, by de-mending her.
But if she have prevailed, and I lose her,
Lossing on the kingdom of her,
She hath prevailed her out of her woe to thee;
And by addition me of thee defeated by adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But since she pricked thee out for goodness she wrought thee,
  Thou


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy praises to that I honor most.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves thy worth a limit past my praise,
And gives thy praises to that I honor most.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, though much, is not so great.
But when my love was rebuked to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time,
And gives thy praise to that I think good.
  And yet, love, be thou good, in this art so.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell.
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity,
Is writ in moods and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But, for they look into the sun, and frowns and frowns and shake eyes,
Thy face hath a face so gazed on,
That hath not the power to hurt,
To say they err I dare not be so.
Sometime all full with sighs and frowns and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange,
But, for they see thee frown on things that the world doth frown.
  And things that the world may frown on thee,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my externity and thy dear merit being deemed
By lacking thee some fault,
Which in me thy livery is allayed,
And in myself by thee, thy own weakness being termed a "scorn,"
And in thee thy course of alt'ring things--
-- things not to me but for thee,
-- things not to me but for thee,
-- things that I to thee do;
-- things that I to thee do,
  And things that I do thee honor most.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry in thy sight
Doubting the filching age will steal her treasure,
And treasure thou some place
With beauty's treasure ere she be self-killed.
That use is not forbidden usury
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
And for they that pay the willing loan;
Then what's so blessed-fair that lends to thee?
What's so blessed-fair that works on thee in
  In thee thy fair flower doth thy show.

