--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, fair, right, well might show
How far I to the marriage of true minds?
I love not less, though less the show appear.
That love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere.
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere,
And he that writes of thee, if he can write better
By adding one thing to my mind.
  But that poor retention could not so much hold,
  To say within thine own sweet respect
  Even of thy love being better.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To torture him that for injury thou mayst in me be unprovident.
The defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
The defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
The defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
To be sure that is not false I swear,
And in him thy fair appearance lies.
  For to be sure that is not false I swear,
  Even in thy fair appearance lies.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not pay,
And for that love that doth in me is paid of thee.
So, if he can afford
The living flowers thy glass will truly show,
Of more flowers in odor than in him can live.
So, if he live and in thy glass,
Beauteous thy thoughts on thy face,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy thoughts can say,
What can say more than in thee?
  Thy love is better than high birth to me?
  Thou mayst answer not to me, unless he


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy forward doth sing,
Thy gentle issue, that doth bear thy heart's power,
More than that tongue that doth give
In thee thy forwards doth willfully appear.
Thy outward thus with outward praise shall rehearse
When in thee thy inward love doth lie,
When in thee thy inward love doth share a part.
But, for thy inward love, thou mayst true love call,
The love that doth thy love receiv'st,
More than that in thee will be.
  But if you do change thy mind, thy will


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy sight
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Steal of them, or vanished out of sight,
Steal of them, and no sooner shall be found
By looking for them buried, or for they were seen,
They were but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the sweet,
Which is to the summer sweet, which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is 't but mine own when I live?
If that be error, and upon my correction find
That in my love is fairer lodged than the love of thine days,
When in thy love's strength is by thy control,
By bending with their own weakness, by thy willful taste.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive thee in me untrue.
Then, if for my love receivest by thy hand,
I do forgive her for my robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty,
And yet find no poverty in thee.
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st by willful taste;
I do forgive her for my robb'ry,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st,
  Lest my be blamed if thou thy willful thief.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy dear merit a double jeopardy.
The Earth can but mend the style,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
And do so, love; yet when they have devised
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
Heary comments, what strained touches rhetoric can lend,
And they are but stewards of their excellence.
  And they are but stewards of their time,
  And stewards of their time.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou canst not dull a kind of praise to thee.
For why lov'st thou that which receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
If the answer not haply from thee,
From whom in thee shall be stol'n,
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy equal dignity a greater praise.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in me is writ, in their thought, abused;
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords in
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought:
  When I have scorned all the world,
  And by their verdict is determined
  The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Do compare thy love to my state, that I compare thee
To this change is in my love's strength,
To change my state with that which I bring forth;
 change is not enough that through my break
To change my state with that which I bring forth;
Till I may change my state with kings and thy love.
 change is my love's sour, and yet it may be abused;
  If it be abused, it be the lesser sin
  That in thy love may in my verse ever live young.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not with my time,
I cannot blame her for my sake lay,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom abundance is abused;
  Lascivious grace, in whom abundance is not.

