--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes and lips my deeds prove,
And, sick of all their praise, mine is this:
Thy eyes are my thoughts, and they my heart's delight,
As I in the sun doth flatter,
Like to the mountain tops where thou art.
But that thy love hath eyes, and they my heart's delight,
Thou dost make my verse more gaudy.
  For thee my verse doth lie,
  Being tongue-tied, of more praise than tongue doth give.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To cry out in my sweet self's face when thou art all my grief's length gone?
O, no, let me be frank, I am much more wretched
Than my self-pitying mother bore when she nursed thee.
I have seen her frown on thy face,
And her gentle words have made me feel worse
For hours now, when she hath given thee such a fair share.
I have seen her frown on thy brow,
And her gentle words have made me feel worse.
  But now thy tears have stopped, and I see thee bright
  As she gave thee


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounty of thy love.
Now, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And suppose a miser lies down,
And steals thy love's treasure;
Then I will be a miser, being frank
And frank in my praise of thee.
Then shall others be as thy humble heart,
And I be all subjects to thy praise.
  To be praised of others' looks is to be despised,
  And to be praised of others' looks is to be despised.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet thou dost desire that my woes should be healed.
Thou art the better of many a miser,
And yet when thou shalt reap the bounteous sum,
The world will pity thine eye,
And thou alone dost give the poor a common grave.
Thou art the better of many,
And yet when thou shalt reap the bounteous sum,
The world will pity thine eye,
And thine eye the poor will be grieved.
  For thou art the better of many,
  And yet the world pity's eyes will pity thine when thou reap's


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art my mortal self, and therefore canst not be taken
From thy breast, where thou art not taken,
But doth thy spirit give thee that gift.
If thou repent and take thy spirit from me,
Thy spirit's presence be thine, and thence I am taken.
If thou repent and take thy spirit from me,
Thy spirit's presence be thyself taken,
And thence I am taken of thee.
  For thee this is thine purpose, that thou mayst forgive me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost deceive, knowing thyself thy art.
Thou art the sun, moon, and stars to whom thou art most gracious,
Which through thy deeds dost deceive,
And to whom thou dost lie so.
Then canst thou taste thyself thy best,
And in that thou taste'st thy beauty truly.
  If thou dost taste thyself sweet, sourly sour
  Then thou taste'st thyself so sourly.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore my verse should be deemed fair.
Fair is love, and true love is suspect,
Fairing the suspect's show, and false the proud'st.
Fairing the proud'st is fairest love's invention;
Fairing the proud'st is false the proud'st.
Fairing the proud'st is false the proud'st,
And false the proud'st is proud'st.
Fairing the proud'st is false the proud'st,
And false the proud'st is proud'st.
  To be sure that I am true is to be


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make me bow my head in self-contradictory
And straightway bow my head in correction,
And I in self-contradictory bow my heart;
O, what a mansion have I found
Which in self-contradictory fashion hath my heart,
Which in self-contradictory fashion hath my heart's content
And that in self-contradictory fashion hath my heart's content.
  O, what a mansion have I found
  Where beauty's veil hath not been,
  Where flowers' veil hath not been, where men's eyes have seen


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such character as thy own.
For if my dear love were but sweet,
And sweet words by expressing it were but insults,
The present tense of the time would be scorn,
And the next most reproachful would be
The humble's lark, speaking of his rank.
The present vice imitated in manners
Is fond on praising past offenses,
And my worst fears are present in hope,
When in good faith my dear love may be proved.
  But hope is not hope, and hope is vengeful hate.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is most heinous in me.
I love thee in such sort as mine eye doth view,
That in me thou gav'st the grossest satire.
I love thee in such sort as mine eye doth view,
That in me thou gav'st the grossest satire to put.
I love thee in such sort as mine eye doth view,
That in me thou gav'st the grossest satire to put.
  For to thy grossest satire I must be gav'st,
  Since my grossest satire doth prove thee grossest.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That in it I must prove my worth,
And that in it I must be proved false.
For what is mine own worth if thou know'st it not?
Thou art thy worth's estimate,
When in thy own right my deeds are proved,
Or, if they be proved false, mine is thine.
O, what a mansion have those false murd'rous eyes
Which, to steal thy sweet virtue, murd'rous thee.
  Their lust for thee hath made thee a murd'rous state,
  Which, to blame, murd'rous thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So I, the damsel in distress,
Steal from the herd where the fierce beast lies,
Steal from the herd where the brave maiden is held,
And bring back again the dear one from before.
O, that my poor feeding home might have remembered
My tender love to thee,
Making her a kind of nurse,
Making her a kind of dearer nurse
Than from me she would have thought best.
  For thou, my poor widow, hast such a feature
  That, being absent, I am so ill I can scarcely breathe.

