--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy inviting me to thy lap,
How should I be obsequious in thy heart,
When I upbraves thy woe and approve thy haste?
You must not be so stern as mine,
Though for my sake mine eye be perjured,
Bare lips to my ear, who in thy brain
Return to their prize and remove warning,
Feeding their needing with feeding,
Giving substance to their drooping head.
  How much more praise deserved thy spiteful look,
  If thy badger grace could bring that report home.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to torture others with my pain is not enough
To drown yourself in my sight?
I do forgive thy scythe that pierced my breast
Thou art dead, though buried in thee.
Thou art my rose, and therefore thine is my grief;
But sick of thy grace whom thou hast left sick,
What sorrow can I then find, save that thou know'st true love.
  Be not sad, sour and woe to that which thou sows.
  Liggers at once the liker and I at once the beauteous.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes view
And mine own vision doth show what wealth is of worth.
Gentle thou art, yet strangely engrafted,
And art heir only to some dear friend's name,
Though from farther off thou dost woo my sight,
And enfeebled mine eye doth rightly report.
Pity me heartily, and wish I would cry amen
To thy image whose fair aspect doth make a frown.
  For thy fair aspect doth every poor make boast;
  This shame hath much an end;
  Then thou shalt call it wealth, poverty and shame.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But all my faults I tend to forgive.
Thou whose precious minutes thy faults bring,
That 'tis well that they offend thee more than thine.
Since thou frailt'st by all alone delivered my name,
Thou worst offender's history proved,
And 'gainst thyself thy foe's history proved
By sowing all kinds of wrongs in me.
  Tired of crime and all offenses laid on thee,
  Thy self so wretched touches both mine and theirs.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To compare two respects
Is a spirit of thine, not of mine,
Whereto whose presence divesting me,
Disdains me even to look upon thee.
Look what is best in life and what is worst affords
Can best be thine when thy charactered friend
Grows tall, so thou best of many.
Never in thy power, till thou come to thy aid,
Give thyself thy all thy might,
Unless thou live me wrong, or else this entanglement.
  Kill me, thou know'st thy all, and know'st thy all ill


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, lo, that is for thy seeing no ill.
Love, in whom art thou so severely besiege,
That in thy body thou dost place,
To be held with death's doorways and held up against the
Time's scythe.
O, what a sight them that hear thee think,
Not thy sour issue but their say,
Making sweet love, sad accident.
Thou worst of all, losing thy sight,
That me thus much of all thy might mayst seem.
  My love and thou didst captain me,
  To make my verse more precious


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she hath half her wealth still.
I grant my love hath the means,
Of mansion and thrift, of some strong desire,
But that of great needs is best spent.
Like false painting, though nearly false appear,
I draw no parallels;
And in thy fair testing I find
Thy fair imperfection making thee seem.
So thou for thy good look, sour tasting my tongue,
Dost deceive Me yet so my love may steal.
  Since thou mine eyes view aught so slight,
  My love as prey takes delight.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that same slander upon thy breast
Is the hath character of nearly divine.
So shall those lascivious tears
That in love are scandalized even to this very day,
Unlooked for joy in their added rottenness;
Then, having traveled far and wide,
They find through me an acquaintance,
A spiteful husband, not to disgrace,
And young mistress of two married shames
Even of their own love's rank.
  Their gross humor is well attested
  And I boast of it, being so;
  And they find it in me, and in me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much.
Cannot grief impair my straightway,
If it impair'st thy repose?
That's for jealousy to love be indulged,
That's for despising my wife be.
Gentlemen, although I love thee so deeply,
Now appear false and virtuous,
Since our common offense hath doth forfeit
Our dear lasciviousness.
Great princes thus: mine is slander which I name;
Your lies offend not only mine,
But all those whom I most love control.
  Lascivious grace is kind-hearted in speaking.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that their inward befriends
Thy loving image is thine.
Despite thy swerving pass perhaps,
My heart love proves thee right.
Thy bosom was built on accident,
Since from thee thy steepy walkest thou come.
Now thou alone dost belong
To single loss wherein thou art assured.
I commend thee for thy beauty in mood,
And for thy sweetness even my moan proves.
  And yet behold thy sweet aspect,
  That being sweet and kind directed my moan.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To say that my flesh-praying eye doth persecute
Thy beauty's effect upon thy body;
My flesh, that thy sweet odor hath on thy taste,
Is guilty of many a thing, even of mine,
Now is a fee paid of thy bad.
Then to be full of worshiped is tempting,
Being false of thyself to say that I do desire.
O, but with mine own compare thy own sweet wit,
  Being counterfeit in all thy good deeds.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
As the lion in her pursuit doth nearly overtake,
The basest ghastly beast she bears;
Whose desire is sweetest fear not;
Cannot by pleasure lose access to her,
But takes delight in the injury,
Injurious distance is taken
From beauty's wildest hide and takes delight
In hideous plight on her show.
Thee are not confined to this or that place
After beauty's conquest, nor can space with thee fill;
  But if they please, to love and to hate alike,
  As flattery to her gentle loving song rehearse.

