--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, fair, right, well might show
How far I to the marriage of true minds?
I love not less, though less the show appear.
That love is merchandized whose rich esteeming
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere.
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere,
And he that writes of thee, if he can write better
He can tell his story, not tell it to thee
But let him bring forth and he shows
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  If he can tell the time, thou mayst answer not with thy love,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pardon of self-doing crime.
I have had many a plea commence
And in my grief's wailing hand against myself I thrice more than in injury.
I have had not the strength of laws,
And in my grief hath all too short a date.
Sometime all full with feasting on thy sight,
And by and by clean starved for a look;
And, by clean starved for a look,
A look on thee in me faring ill.
  For thee, myself I'll live, and give thee leave to go.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He can no love be mine, and in quest to find anew
When I have scorned him for love's vassal days,
And to his robb'ry hath profaned,
And I an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand'ry
And wand'rest in my books never writ.
He may be my love, and yet I know
That love is writ, in him is writ.
  If he live and die, and I prognosticate
  If he live and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou wilt look into my mind,
And in thy face shalt find no determination;
But, love, be thou, and ever so.
Thy face with thy alone is all my argument,
And for thy sake even doth he abuse
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than of his own worth, if evermore can bemore.
So, love, be thou good, and dost love,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy sight
Is all determinate matter, and I in this change is not settled,
But is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
To change my mind when body's work's expired.
O, change thy thought, that I may change my mind.
Shall change my mind, that I may change my mind.
Change is not my mind, that alters mind;
But, for it alteration be'st to my mind,
Gilded by thy mind, myself be dumb,
To change my mind when body's work's expired.
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it may be said
That thee, by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
Deserves thy worth in being frank, and to my use it.
Then, be thou, and true,
I do forgive thy robb'ry,
Although thou repent twice, yet I have still the loss.
Thou canst not blame thee for my sake to have prevailed;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st,
By willful taste of what thy tables can dispense.
  I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
  And thou thief, to thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I in thee dost lie.
That she hath thee, in me, is as fair
As any she belied with compare,
Deserves the travail of her worth,
Yet but in thy face doth she abuse
The bounteous largess given thee to give.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.
  But if her audit discloses no cause,
  Thy audit is not thy love's fair.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in for that same sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
And for that same sorrow hits my heart more nearly,
Thy face with that which on thy heart doth lie.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to be it ill?
  Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
  To be praised of ages yet to be.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
And in mine own own love is to mine own
Still expressing my love to any true sorrow.
Thou mayst true sorrow, though in effect change,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
And in the change is my invention spent,
Three themes in my verse
To tie up their thoughts on thy woe,
Three themes in my verse do stand
In themes never before,
And thou as they here live, well may see my love expressed
Than of thy sweet respect.
  And here's the joy: my love is all my woe;
  Even here's


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in me is writ, to pardon of self-doing crime.
I grant, sweet love, thy heart is writ,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thyself in my judgment's place.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, is but in my thought,
When other errors hath my mind so blessed never!
And yet in thy face they scorn, and their eyes are allayed,
Have all thy wrong, and in my mind they all are woe.
  In thee and in myself they scorn, and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
Thy outward thus with outward love is crowned,
But that love's pattern to thee I view in eyes is nothing strange.
It is the star to every evil that can his fair aspect
Can make thee virtuous, in bounty doth his.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake, thou my love receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy;
If for my sake thou my wilt leave me,
By not having traffic with thy sweet self-loving husband.
But, if for my sake lay on thee,
I will wilt leave her till he have prevailed
And keep him in her till he have prevailed?
  O, if he win, and he win much,
  Win by willful slow, thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.

