--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath not figured to my heart;
My heart is thine, and they, like widowed wombs,
Do not question my sensual pleasure,
But rather acknowledge thy dear merit.
Thou art more humane than tongue-tied churl,
Than niggard truth of thy telling.
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy song.
  How like Eve's apple doth thy praise,
  Which apple doth thy song sing?
  How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For if you torture me half as well,
Then your cruel crime hath no blot on my brow,
Nor my guilty pleasure advisement,
Nor my adverse party's guilt being proved,
But, if you torture me in your sight,
My life hath in this line some interest,
Seeking that truth which truth doth tell.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks betray!
  How many gazers mightst thou lead away
  If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not missed.
Thou art as thine in bounty befits,
When those gold fountains which thy shallowest trenches enclose
Are thinly placed beside the sea;
Against this my judgment I must attend
Thy appeal, not wanting thy quiet,
Showing thy part in the action.
The cause of this slander is thine,
Which on thy soft cheek I bring forth
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
That he will all of thy good report.
  Then give him leave, for I must ne'er love him thine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee will be well?
Be thou my tenth muse, ten times happier than thou art
When ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
Ten times thy worth do define
Thou art ten times happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
Ten times thy worth do define
Three times thy worth, and thou mine
Is refigured more than that bounty bred.
  Thus do I pine, dreading the end of this book,
  Since all things cease, and things renew.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the gatekeeper of my soul,
Which, through thy glass, can see
Wherethrough the veil doth cover every blot,
Seeking that shadow to thy part,
Dark'ning thy light with false shadows shall blot the heaven;
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thou art the gatekeeper of my soul,
Which, through thy glass, perceiveth all my jollity.
  Thus do I pine when thy glass shows thee me thee
  That, through thy controlling me, thou dost make me much dull.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know not what is new, that thou mayst call it thine.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She stores thee to this purpose, that her skill
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
  Then, if she please, do not shoot,
  Unless she may make thee bow;
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That her shallowest pride might enclose me in thy heart.
For well thou know'st that I am shamed by that which I hold dear,
And like a lamb I must be, though not so blessed
As those whose owners proudly make the lamb.
Thou art the better taker of true love
Than those whose owners are more proud of their sport.
  If our two be twain, one by to the other,
  The bloody conquest of both's parts must be.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
That thy sickle tongue may give scope to my speaking?
Be thou my all the world, geographically,
And all the world besides?
Be thou my all the world, and all my parts in one,
And make my Earth devour her own sweet brood;
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
O'er the world's and all her fading sight,
Save that thy all the world may see
From thy all the farther off.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee,
  My all the


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' inviting of thy gentlekindness
Points on me graciously whose neglect of truth
Is tied to thee. Wisely speaking of thy praises,
Th' subject lends not some small glory,
But I the greater good of many a glory.
Whilst thou dost advance, what hindrance hindrance affords
Bound for my benefit?
Be thou the tenth cog in ten minutes,
Robbing of all thy might; ten minutes mine
In thee, thy great invention will be seen.
  And even thence I may be assailed,
  For thy ten minutes shalt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That to my sweet beloved doth my heart give invention light.
In thee those errors are seen
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
In thee errors are seen
To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
And, for the tongue that tells the story of thy days,
Thy love is better than high birth to my tongue,
And better used than high birth to learn.
  Then others for the breath that from thee is kept,
  Me for thy breath to drink, for thou art the sickle.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, mine own desert,
Beggared of blood to blush, for thy will,
Against thy reasons make no defense.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within the bending sun's veil hid in the desert,
Who hast by desert impregnable,
Attending on thy revolution;
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within the subdued desert desert being made.
  This thy summer's flower is to thy summer sweet,
  And thy pale green


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had I been acquainted
Than nimble footstalker, nor maiden maiden maiden in hue,
But when from thee I took my way,
The bloody instinct was to break
The lease of thy budding love.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
  And even thence thou wert not married to my sightless night.

