--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilded amours hang in heaven's holy hall.
For what that leaves in heaven's violet canopy didst thou desire?
Was it thy beauty that thou desired returned from thy breast,
Or was it thy moan that heaven gave thee welcome?
Thou which art so sinful, that thou wilt leave me alone,
Lose all pity and slumbers in thy sight,
Exceeded even in thy praise.
  For heaven's grace thou mayst answer,
  Losing all thy good grace is enough.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To weep large tears on account of thy love?
Now I share a common sorrow,
Which I grant hath within myself an even greater delight.
I dwell upon the disgrace of thy birth,
And quite rightly feel that thy love is more grievous
Than mine own true loss.
And so on, till I see thee triumphantly taken,
Then feeling myself prevailed upon am I contented;
Ah, that my moan is more sharpened and strengthened,
Than mine own plea hath added something better.
  Lauding me surly is a better policy
  To kill false poets that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The privilege of limping onwards;
By this I am bound to attend idle hours
Of poor benefit, contracted to traffic with friends,
Enjoyed no leisure unkindly,
Enjoyed but by those that send me back again.
O, you may excuse my twain's trouble
When I am jollied up in the car,
And shoot me dead in the front seat,
That I hasten to death by stealth,
Although it be not thy grace that stalks my plight.
  O, wretched me, in whom so great a grief affords,
  Wretched


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Some greater delight than my love's boast,
Which I to thee proves more blessed
Than thou art I to thy dear affection.
Blessed are those whose wills give thee gift,
Others who grant thee gift but weakens
By frequent force of will.
Yet though thy sweet desire be dearer still,
Thou for whom abundance gives thee gazest,
Even so thy sweet self will bear it day by day.
  And, despite thy sweet revolt,
  The world away shall see thy beauty still,
  Because thou art so blessed our time.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou teachest spirit within thine sight shouldst receive thee,
And therein befits an appeal.
Therefore say I thou thy name, and I'll speak of thee
Where thou art not sufficed to humble me.
From hence I may take nought but what thou dost lend,
And that care of another thy wish mayst bear.
  But for whom shall thy beloved leave thee,
  Thy living memory, till all is done?
  Thou art all thy all, all the world, and yet dost remain,
  Or rather, being buried in me, is


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But if some speak ill of thee,
Then thou mock and mock'st I within thine eye,
Whose speech impediments are thy bones.
Let them that see thee look into mine own
Thy living eyes and see what lies hidden within,
That in their grossed love toward thee
They view thy form in thy bones.
  They look into thy flesh and see what thou dost be,
  Since thy living form in thine eye thine is.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, full of filching age,
Who hath no love graces to lay, either trifles or proud boast,
Or walks fairly with ladies though I show her pride;
So for her love there is nothing we know,
Nothing that she bears that cannot be shown.
All that she confounds is her love's presence,
Which almost conceals away when I show her truly.
  Therefore do my sacred hawks with holy patience bark,
  For fear of wrong I teach her love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Gild'st thy beauty and thyself strumpet,
By all women's eyes but married in thine own.
Lean forward on me and make amends
For lost love's influence on my heart;
Reserve, sometime, your great merit,
To sufferance and trouble of less worth than thy moan.
Lean on me and make amends
For thee who doth murd'rously kiss my eye,
Who for thy love of me tend'st my thralled breast,
And that in mine own blood the murd'rous moan is.
  Then may I dare to speak


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such suspect manners as thou tiresest
To give reasons why I should suspect.
Show me thy tongue, and I'll show you some
Some virtue, being full of thy defect;
Show me thy face, and I'll tell the truth,
Of things seeming made worse by thy neglect.
Thou art in my mind's eye quite settled,
And mind thus done:
My outward form lies in my heart,
That my thoughts therein may be cured,
Unless thou pardon my sins.
  To do this would be a more gentle blow
  To my sickle's eye than any sorrow commits


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me it is all the world's blessing.
In thee dost on many misprisionaries
Since everyone looks upon me but in mine own.
It is this inward love that doth thrive
Within my gentle eyelids a thousand stars are seen.
Even so my jewels when they are set down
In thee do shine bright, and my lips am as sweet
As sweet flowers, being made from thy lips.
  But do not so.  Sweet love is a set feature of mine,
  And to thy sensual delight all things lack.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And confine this in thy heart,
That myself for thy love doth sit in thy head.
Thou viest that for thy love I should cry amen
To such a worthy change as this,
Which besides thy goodness gives sweetness.
The moan should be more pleasing to my ear;
My flesh beauteous mother should desire
More pleasing sounds than this mother's moan;
Yet do not so. 'Tis thee, my dear love, who as thy moan
Comes more niggarding than mother's moan to this end.
  Laud, commentator; I think thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bank clerk in my diocese taught
That clerk to clerk so excellence
That if he should chide thee, 'tis an antique
Which is extant in another's shop.
But I, being out of town, being advised
By a clerk that spends more time with you
Than doth the clerk's bet is ruined.
Since the clerk doth my praise,
The rude clerk in my diocese praised;
Now, thank goodness, I have him praised more.
  More praise means less delight
  To me than love or hate to you.

