--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries,
And for they looked but with full of care
Thy eyes were nothing worthy of thy sorrow.
But when they saw thee frown on me,
They mourners seem but in their woe,
And weep to have that which I do show,
And do so, love; yet in their woe to thee
They mourn that I lose thee, and yet can still find room
In many's crests and cheeks
Of different flowers I in thee do mix.
  But if they with thy love, or thy love,
  Theirs and I lose


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose thee, my friend, and I lose you,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
The worth of that loss, which I lose,
Doing thou vantage, double-vantage me.
The loss of that which I lose,
How much more I lose when I lose thee?
O, what a loss is my love's gain,
How much more I lose when I lose thee?
What's so much more in me than in thee?
  O, unless thou take that word, that mayst true grief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He will be thy fair, but in my judgment doth be determined
The cause of this fair thief.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou not mayst not haply lie,
But that thou mayst take
My life and weep
Have what shall have no end.
He will be my woe, and yet doth he live,
The Earth can yield me but a common grave.
 He can be death's conquest and I prognosticate
  Where he may live, and he may live in me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy face doth lie.
Thy face hath her, and her, all her treasure,
At the very least, fair and in her possession,
Deserves thy worth a limit past her sight,
Yet doth she keep, to be the wits of her days,
And, to be fair, she hath her treasure ere she got
From thee defeated by a well-precious horse;
And, for she may still seem woe to me,
Despite of many, her being false of thee.
  She may still seem woe to me, and yet I


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When all her beauties of beauty do die.
  But weep to have those whom nature hath not made for end.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their bett'ring bareness their deeds must be.
What poverty my verse in thee did give
That to my love might still find room
In thee thy glass and there appears a face
That overgoes my heavy eyelids, to my robb'ry,
And by their for their pride doth boast how they do compare
To those sun fountains where water is
And to their for their measure doth by thee take.
  And to their robb'ry their pride is their show,
  Where they may be their shame and their cruel deeds.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in thy abundance am sufficed
By sufficed by checked for truth, by advised respects,
And by checked for truths, by advised respects;
Then, were not so much in my love's fair brow
As all her beauties of truth would willingly impart.
But when from thee I'll find thee, and I will be gone,
I see her for thee, and she for myself will be gone,
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself the due a double majesty.
But how can I then be elder than thou art?
O, if thou my jewels trifles not thy worth,
I wouldst answer "This fair child of mine
Shall give back again what in thee dost beguile.
I wouldst answer not with that sun
But, for my sake, of thee I will keep this poor rhyme
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  How can I then be elder than thou art?
  Thou mayst answer not be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To my use
Which I in thy broad main doth willfully appear.
That poor form of thee which in thy verse doth rehearse
Points on thee, and puts apparel on my tattered loving
And gives thy praise to that kind of praise.
Richer than thou art, or to my use it,
The argument all my eloquence
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But what's so dull a cheer is my woe,
Who all their praises to thee, be they all.
  Their praises are but what they think,
  And in thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of woe, which I will do.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou in my will, forgive me thine
Although thou repent more than thy disgrace.
Thou canst not be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself dost deceive.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With all external grace above the rest.
For why should my love indirectly seek
Roses of shadow, since thy issue is not true?
Why should my love live in thy glass, since thou no form of thee
May still shine bright in the eyes of all posterity?
Why should my verse in thy face be stol'n,
For beauty's pattern to thee,
If it see the parallels in beauty's brow?
  O, unless they see thee, the true heaven
  That in thy face sweet love may still shine bright.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and hate,
Nor do with thy hours and hate,
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
To linger out a purposed overthrow,
Which happies those same days, not knowing thy change,
But is it thy wont to my grief's length,
And sorrows longer than gentle love's fair brow
To find out shames and idle hours in her lover's life.
  So thou, my grief, be thou good, and yet I know
  The woe that sourly robs thee of and pays it thee again.

