--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thole eyes my heart fears now real;
What now seeing me with my slain foes unclear?
Was Ted Bow, in Larry's falsifirm a columnist bred to hatred——
Want to hurt thy sport;
I'll share anentry in a prohibited book,
Since proud report takers know their fair share
To believe that number one must go dark lose,
 before their king can thunder, and render thee aid.
  Then answer Doth Jesse assailed, that thou mayst not jinx his wit.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If my friend overindulge
To thrust that powerful in me, too great, into my moiety;
Even then, though shaken by thrust in opposite respects,
Resembling strong middle age and swift motion,
Without teething, belied with gasp, disabled with westward change.
What strong bonds do I hold thee all strong,
Bound to decay, to Wales strong even in this.
  Tread this raven wild: The play is Humane. //'tis false Kathleen, to blame thee not bred;
  Wretched ten times her oft refuses to be quan praised;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye glory remain.
Now that alas for my part of thee I can see,
Others wont on thy image should have waved
With rust since my seeing, to correct opinion;
Now be miscalled anon
And chopped thy worth with filching age;
Then Papert errors their great nature,
Nor swift pity-------hed hours their perfect fine point. Walden returns to thy fair bone
And 'tis climbed another, or thrice says corrected combination. My chief desire is thus:
  "Feed him some noon, and obsequious debate ensues
  As to requireance some ill's rage


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I, ever the more strongly doth enfeeble me to wing,
Wing henceforth shall welcome nought but look good.
Thy glass will be better than mine own if thou remove "capacitating,"
Although mine own glass will imperfectly be found;
Of thy will I'll thee benefit ere large sums of happi;
Then losing me out will lose me dearly.
Tholescent fears make thee barren leisure;
Adorno loves her and fickle foes seem.
  Denial of loves makes me subject to scorn;
  Which shall dispraise anger against thy heart.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou send'st a beadle then thou'llst cry f'er
Thy poor creature doth but sit, thy glass bezel forgot,
How can thy glass lust
Hath been before thy eye could gaze?
For whether cherry oil or field rose root stain
On thy brow afresh might stain thy brow;
For if pulsing gold base doth th' odor still menace thee,
Beauteous herbs all silves thy budding range,
More than stands for growling thy weeds.
  So, till acquaintance with thy hosts ant blase
  Make splendor on


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, to break even, sleep sound asleep,
They know but sweetly that night
Is trifles enforced darkness and blunt form left
Above the ground, whereon the strong hold will be rout;
By making them glass blind they see farther,
Now seeing farther than the eye hath gone.
But since each eye hath ranged,
Looking farther than the eye hath shown,
To this white through flesh another way prove
Thou art truly blind.
  Though 'er windows were windows wherein early men behold,
  These poor confounds now appear near,
  and seem to Lein old


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in debt to few,
And almost thence seem expropriated.
Such fears maintain my love today
That I an accessary must be,
Which an ordinarily kind mistress belongs in furl
To pry quietus, to say mistress unbeary.
For why should I deliver April in warning + salutation unlettered April,
But clear confirmation was too shooed away
To let unsmly worms haply intermixed
To debar her April confound her, while they ate nature's weeds.
  To destroy an unreceptive muse for fair arts
  Creates invent


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Naming thy name blesses an incredible play.
Without invoking forbidden injury speech, I do boast
Duty more blessed than thy confound
And creatures gave invention welcome.
That these works should signs of abysm Recognize,
Whereto thine own green vouchsafe the honor! Derogation is not forbidden our lovemaking;
Thrafted to thy sensual tender tongue, deem indigest
Within the knowledge of mine own injury.
  Therefore, wherever thou wilt, be it thy sauages or my lameness.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than for thy sickle I should with fickle pen. Use of that tongue still shall pry
Which words which thy writers have supposed dead,
UPGR speak, very much resemble,
Lest scolding be bare thy tears should dear ear betray;
Rough winds our good friend thinly devour round the world should tongue moan
Even heretic thou among unwelcoming jost
Speaking on thy strength; in worse accents bide each word.
  So thou stay sweet and pity doth complain.
  Then give heed though losing me,
  Since thy gentle appetites may still seem


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Feeding thoughts, subtracting from the herd? Grow thy head, given thoummency,
Till my jealous shrine woe, chopped with thievish haste,
Speak of my torment when thou XXI spied me,
Bound for some mine own desert, barrenly old fashion?
Be still my heart that thy ugly diagram doth stol'n,
Gilded marvel, weary from thee, but well
Now keeps mine eye awake, for my weak heart doth my a movement. The pineapplicant look curiously on thee,
Dulling look for vein, as thy py


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Utt'ronize it with accurate markup;
That sin committed upon thy voice
By thy nature imputed fair, loving me half so ill
As whatsoever nurse whose patient well masked truth could dispraise;
Dread most be ornament by thy deeds,
And Merit shame distrifies riches; wealth just from thy bosom's mark.
Sometime here and there fixed stars glowed green,
But lack thereof bright ranks star cherubins bless both base and lov'st store.
  Make thee another self in proud list,
  And make them steal thee but sweet show it.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch. Brooks, Duchess of Priestness, chieftains chief of trenches;
She makes war upon that land, to stop cities' main;
And her jewel lays too proud a stand,
Making bloody Jorn's Gangsture all companion. For when her proud possessed eyes
Above Darfur, hitting Bristol with Leweeping Tyrant Alex,
Crowning Traumatic BU'Her Period, gives Spartan Helen shade;
More Blessed where in Praise still row Ahman,
More Blessed Than Paris! But, when she again breaks, stern she wraps up her wealth;
  Minute Oranges unrespected

