--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou mine eye all grieved,
For beauty's face is fairest in me.
Yet this my love is renewed,
And now thy beauty's face my grief finds,
Which leaves behind thy lusty walk.
Thou canst not repel my passion,
Unless that thou use'st thy feature;
Therefore to repel my desire I send thee away.
  If that repel be not from thee,
  Then thou must be repel; but if it be from thee, I forbid thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to torture others I must first make my moan,
Then hang on my worst imagin'ry,
Making a sort of sickle penury of rights
And bastardising all the gains that I bring.
All my brav'n till I am dead are spent,
And then all my shame and all my glory are won,
And I with all my gain gain find another way.
Sometime I dream of pleasure and proud virtue
And then I grudge myself every woe,
And for that woe I so grossly o'errown.
  Then all my grief subsides and I gain


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
For thou thyself art mine and I give thee this;
But now thou, thyself thy foe,
Take thyself thy adversary's blow and double our delight.
Thou in love with whom thou art so grossly perjured,
And now shalt lose all thy joy.
Roses are thine and streams are springs;
So thou through thy love losest all thy joy.
But now thy pleasure hath been assured,
And now loss of that joy thou losest,
And I through thee gainst all thy treasure.
  And thus the peace of thy verse begins:



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose discontent with thy spite deny;
Thou art thy best friend, and so am I.
O, keep thy papers in my living room,
Since everything I bring in return is thine,
And, dear friend, do not give me distraction
When in-fighting thou art all out;
O, be careful not to break the bank,
For if thou break the neck of a miser,
The loss is great, and the treasure lost is huge.
  This my love suffers, that thou dost leave it;
  And hence it is with me as with Eve,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thus the tenth unwritten scribe,
Which by that authority hath all the knowledge
Of what is best, and proves it by true words;
To whom thy fair review doth belong,
Thou single most precious thing in me.
To whom thou art so gracious a gracious guest,
Grant thou me this sovereign access,
That if I say anything of thee, thou prove
Thy worth the greater part of me.
  For thou art my all, and me most wondrous.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see it not, then thou know'st it is decease.
Then, if, thou art deceived, how thy deeds wail
Thou'st thy sweet love's happy ending,
For not thy sweet love's happy ending wail
Whose part thou lov'st to be adulterate?
Thou art thy betrayer, that in thy heart
Thou lov'st to be thine, and thus shall be proved.
  This was my thought when I was a child,
  Being bettered that I should live and die alone.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in wealth,
That for fortune's bastard I can untied thrive.
To say she lived on merit is an untrue
statement; to tell her I lived on merit is untrue
And she lives on blame, as gaudy as a rose,
As victors of my jealousy."
Thence comes the other way, and then is my story told
Of lovers of my love; of lovers married I
Are told to pity, and to her I am untrue.
  So I am then the copyist, of true friends,
  Which in their jealousy write of me untrue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And when some suspect finds thy moan
Hiss in mine ear, I draw my sword;
Against thy side I draw mine own hand,
And thrust my sword into thy heart;
Against thy side mine own well is made,
And thou provest my worth by thy accident.
Thou art the grave where committed the great sin
Of youth and death, where dwell'st thy sweet virtue,
Where flowers with their sap meet, and where sweet smell leads.
  But this thy neglect proves
  All mine, and mine only praise is this:
  Thou art my all, all the world


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy own spite better than tongue-tied praise.
In what follows thou art wont to pass,
Or rather to leap in with thy foot
When gentle foot is wont to leap,
Gilding his thrust with his foot will not do much injury
But graciously give thy fair moan.
The gaudy praises which thy lips make
Of other's well-lived fame will bestow,
And other's praises with manners acceptable shall
Be hallowed titles.
  But since thy sweet lips praise mine,
  I to this a story should tell.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which for myself loves thine eye is my art.
I do not love thee with my tongue,
Nor thy dear argument with me with thy mind;
I grant my love is better than mine own when thou dost allege.
In thee I engraft new numbers,
Which all the world well knows are counterfeit.
That counterfeit, though it appear in thee,
Can in thee still be counted,
Since I in thee dost print it;
  And having this in mind, I hope the best
  To send thee all the best of good.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which although it be full of faults, yet doth me most proud.
Thou dost love my ignorance, my love being so grossly confounded.
That my love is best termed humor,
Which tongue-tied manners by succession use,
Creating but one hymn, like a doctor's patient.
But if thou wilt be much too much tongue-tied,
Thou wilt be as my humble doctor int'rim,
Showing me the gilded tomb where he didst lie.
  If thou wilt be so grossly out of character,
  Then come to my


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From far-off land to bear her burden.
O, how much more blessed a mother my babe shall be
Than that which she brings in;
By that blessed intercession hath my babe
From far where mother nature did give
That made a babe for the world.
O, what a glorious story have mother's eyes
Of this blessed gift given us!
Yet how much more blessed we are
Than that which she stores up for us!
  Or, if she stores up, what a happy story
  Toasts that praise in happy form.

