--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All naked, unrespected of my truth,
Do them thyself adoring render,
That I in their spite do disdain
Thy eyes, which thou hast in their control.
For those eyes which thy loving eyes
Can best see do above the frown of the frown,
Whose inwardly thy love doth make a frown,
The basest of all frowns on me.
  These eyes may be false, but their beauty lies hid.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When in consent of some virtuous virtue I lie,
I tell the story of your crime.
Your foul deeds do not excuse my sland
When I am rebuked with your thralls,
But I tell the story of your pleasure;
And then you are brought to my account,
Which, confounded, is to blame where I am found.
Mark how my silence is broken when you are heard
And I in your stillness praise grow,
Making a grave affront to yourself.
  Then you are my torment, and I am glad that I am so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounteous largess given thee.
Now thy gift be mine and that gift is mine alone,
Lose that which thou so lov'st to give,
And do thy worst to steal another's treasure.
Then, lose thyself, be thou the tenth gilded fool,
Against whom counting thy treasure thou dost break,
Lose that which thou thyself dost steal,
And do this thyself thy worst:
  In losing thee thyself lose thyself thyself hath paid,
  And loss of thee thine own self doth forfeit thy prize,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For heaven knows that my love is as strong
As any damask that damasked must be.
Thou art more than appetizer to me than any damask
Which can take delight in my doing;
I am a miser, and thus thou dost make
Thee for my thrift and amiss
The willing patient that takes the least of thy delight.
You have given my all, to take what is best.
Yet know that my love is but the sum of thy largess,
And, till that sum come, thou know'st me even by that word.
  Lo


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou hast some part in my nature,
Which for thy art thou sicken to vouchsafe,
Yet I must be thy advocate,
Therefore thou thy fair nativity be a curse,
For what good doth thou bring forth, though thou art fair,
Shall others mock, when thou art thine?
O, 'tis as a curse that calls upon thy sense,
Shall others' praise be thy fair moan?
'Tis better to be praised than condemned be,
Which in thee proves thy art.
  If that slander be fairer lodged,
  More deserving


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou art the very substance of beauty's grave.
So, in the presence of their seeing,
Thou hast but one pure feature in common sight,
And thus shalt thou live:
In this thy image thou art the fair,
Although all girding up in thine own self thou art.
  To be truly fair a man decease
  The inward girding his head with himself doth lie,
  From whom thou gav'st thyself thy outward show.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might say her best to give.
So I, much more certain of the truth than false a wink,
Against temptation take my love's liberty
Than she that takes my liberty bids it grow;
And for a tyrant's love to love be so strongly shaken
That he takes my liberty for his own.
Then, having prevailed, I return,
And kiss the cup that she drinks from my breast;
Or else she takes my liberty, and I hold fast
The bonds of love that bind us both.
  Then can I enjoy life and hate not,
  Unless that love were


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Reserve not a satire on thy parts,
Him in manners rude as manners is.
Be as thy mother tongue is, sweet child,
Whose lively riper nature hath underbraven,
For to be fair a son of womankind is
A bastardized form of thy father's labored.
Thou canst not be impeached for what thou dost prove;
Nor canst I vex myself with inconstant mind,
For to be sure of anything I must prove,
Creep in thy charactered words, and I will prove thee.
  So give honor to that which


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much my distress.
Be thou our critic, and my writ a doublet
To critic's praise thou art best acquainted;
Speak of thy merit with more than common praise,
Which to my adder's praise proves my greatest.
O, how much more praise deserved thy moan
Than doth my tongue-tied praise give.
O, how much more praise deserved thy moan
Than mine own tongue praising hath done.
O, how much more praise deserved thy moan
When thy own pen hath writ it.
  How much more praise deserved thy moan When mine own pen hath writ


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That my thoughts, when I see them done,
Reserve for my dear love a judgment.
Look what a fine house the winds have built
Which tenaciously hath bastardized thy moan,
Whose action is to mend thy sight.
Look what a miserly state the world-puttering rich doth lend
To make repair of his shop-worn moan;
Look what a jealous world turns to scorn when it sees
That my largess gives thee such a sum.
  Look what a shamed widow looks like when her husband's eyes
  Dinner on her husband's brow and make widow's


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As with thy own sweet selfsame hate,
Whose state, being mine, is to approve
Of all offenses that may come to my mind.
Thou, what a gracious gift from thyself dost thou make,
Making adjuncts to my praise,
Making adjuncts of thy praise,
Making adjuncts of thy praise!
O, what a gracious gift from thyself dost thou bring,
Making adjuncts of thy praise!
  To thee I in this present vice boast:
  I am thy worthless selfsame hate,
  Which, for thy sake, by thy love being


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, being wakened, she takes another woman's life;
And, accusing this time her of theft,
Spends her husbandry on another woman's neck.
Then, if he be true, why do men steal women's lives
And women's lives so tenderly?
Because thou art so thy love's guest,
Both husband and wife to be;
Whose love's guest is thy widow,
And her husband's deceased love steals all that is worth.
  This my great love doth steal, and this my greatest grief
  Makes for evermore grief and evermore

