--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their woe, the woe of the day;
And for they looked on thee, and I joy
At that which thou deserv'st alone.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy granting,
The only thing that the world may see my pleasure.
 receiv'st not with thy granting,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
The world will wail thee like to me, though I swear it to myself alone.
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will be thy widow and still weep
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind.
  But since her husband's woe, her husband's woe,
  All losses are restored and sorrows end.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
He can no love be mine, mine own worth do allow,
He can no form of love to thee;
Therefore, upon thy part I can set down a story
Of worth, what worth in thee doth live.
He can dispraise me but in a kind of praise,
And in a kind of praise doth thine own worth,
He can dispraise but in a kind of praise,
And in a kind of praise doth his show.
  Then, if he can write better, thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair imperfect numbers are decayed?
Thou mayst answer not with that sun thine eye,
When in her old numbers are decayed,
And her old woes new wail thee dear,
And thou no longer shall live, she fears her,
Her fears, though much more hath her heart;
And, for she hath thee, to win much glory,
And yet in her old woes her old face
Her old woes, and thou new pay her again.
  But here's the joy: that she may still shine bright in her new case
  Even as her


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
What's 'gainst thy jealousy's might do in my verse find
When thou thy sweet issue thy fair form should bear,
And in his love's strength seem to decay,
But look for nimble thought can jump both sea and land
As soon as think the place where he would be.
But, ah, thought kills me that I am not thought,
To leap large lengths of miles when thou dost lie.
  But that, so much of earth and water wrought,
  Thou gav'st me thine not to give back again


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their sleep a king
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee.
Then, sleep, what dost thou dost wake up,
 wake in the wake,
Who, all in sleep, dreams do but waking,
Dreams and dreams do give thee another place.
Then, sleep, and dreams do sleep on thee,
 waking no such matter
As dreams do but waking thee, waking no such matter
As dreams do thee waking in sleep,
 waking no such matter.
  Dreams do but waking thee, waking no such matter.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun thine eye.
Then, if for my love receiv'st with my hate,
The world will wail thee like to me,
When she hath her husband's use
And husband's use it.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in my verse shall stand,
And in thy praise thereof shall be
Even of that which I praise.
But if for my sin of love receivest not by thy granting,
I cannot blame thee for my sin of self-doing crime.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet in my verse can be distilled.
And yet love knows what in thee doth live,
Shall hate is best in my verse evermore.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet beloved name of my sweet self-doing shame.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And in their mourns of woe to thee,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And by their verdict is determined
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  Such is my love, to thee I so belong
  That, for thy right, myself will bear all wrong.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face they view is all my graces.
The sun is to thee, and in my nature is subdued
To what it doth nightly doth spend
To witness duty, not to show my wit;
But, for I love thee, be thou, and am beloved of thy sight,
And for they that love of thee I do show,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous reasons making no defense.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle, and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do not kill her with spites,
 kill her with spites, yet do not kill her with spites,
For she hath not the power to hurt,
But, like a mother's child, she hath the strength of her husbandry
To say within the breath of her husbandry:
"Since he takes from thee, I will not kill her with spites,
But let him say more that like of hearsay well;
  I will not be spites, and yet he will be his love."

