--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou behold'st the rack
On thy body's neck that hath strayed from thy sight.
Look what thy neglect had done to beautify thy sight,
For thy love removed thee, and I straight were made lame,
When I was victor of thy looks,
Since thy beauty's rack hath not eased my sorrow.
  Hence sorrow's end is this: mine eyes are mine and thy heart's sight
  To love my grief and pity's sake.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When in the tender morrow I behold
The heavily sullen captain bide his time;
Is it not enough that my heart th' inviting bell
Hath my side to the front where it shall rest,
Bringing his wounded friend to his side?
O, then give full heed to my plea,
That my life is forfeit to sufferance.
O, if thou wilt allow it, so be it;
Grant, my dear friend, my life is forfeit.
  Then be thou my witness, my love being forfeit.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall survive.
For thee I grant that I will live virtuous life,
And that, while thou survive, I in another remain,
Save that my widow hath thine own husbandry.
Ah, but this thy sweet love concealed hath got,
That my widow hath for fortune her husbandry.
The worth of thee, so mak'st, cannot be taken
By tenants' wills or contracted to tenants' wills.
  Yet this thy gift hath got thee,
  And thence I can boast how I do live;
  That I by thy love may live virtuous life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which vexes me more than love's anger;
Than those whom thy lovely thoughts invocate,
These perfidious jealousies which thou hast against me.
These offices are more blessed whereof I am cast,
Than those of thy rude jealousy directed.
I can do no wrong, truly am virtuous,
Being brief, being fond on thy seeing,
And thus are my civil rights.
But being long in this I change,
And losing all hope of rest, that hope is thine.
  Thy love is fairest than mine;
  But thy love is so; for it


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The outward form of thy heart
Is not thine, the inward love of thy heart,
Which thou in thy heart may latch,
For thou in thy body's force mayst know
The motion of thy heart's blood.
In other words, thy body's motion is thy mind,
That it thy mind in thy heart may know.
Thou thus, to thy great deserts, hast the right to be gone,
The very lion that kills.
  Lascivious grace, to whom thy cheek belongs,
  Saves thy mind and body from each other's paws.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, lo, that is all their seeing,
They gaze upon thy drooping form,
And, lo, that thou dost false praise
In other words doth deceive them.
O, that tongue that calls in their seeing
Is false art, 'gainst thyself deceiving,
For 'gainst thyself deceiving tongues see,
And thou deceiv'st thyself by thy speaking.
  If thou wink, they rightly perceive
  And 'gainst thyself the proud title of proud
  Being.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And assured riches brought from far off,
Shall sums her jewels up to be.
Ah, but this I dare not believe,
When my great-aunt delivers me to him who brought me here,
To witness his wondrous show.
So I am rebuked, in hope of comfort,
And asked to recite some hymn;
And those that believe my story tell a different story.
No wonder then I seem to thee,
That thou among them I am thine,
That gives me pleasure even when thou dost give it;
  For since my love hath no delight made,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Had I some acquaintance with your beauty,
Or some acquaintance with your necklaces,
Had I some acquaintance with your lips' virtue,
Or some acquaintance with your fingers' authority,
Had I some acquaintance with your handkerchief.
But, like worms in the record books,
None whatsoever that give any account
Of thy merit or thy riches to thy sight,
I ever report such things as thou tellest.
  Presume not, then, that I have any ink to give
  But what thou bestow'st is thy report.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immoderate spirit as thy sweet self make boast.
Lean penury on thy part will be scandal,
Nor praise confined to thine own
But vulgar insults to thy name shall fame.
Thou worst offender in my judgment shall be
In praising my wit, my love's fair,
Such gross abysm as thy name shall make
To blush my show where thou art found.
  Such is my love, in whom thou art so proud,
  That my love's shame shall be mine,
  Even to thee who dost so much hate me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me they esteem is greatest.
Then thou who art so affable my heart,
Who 's all the rage in me,
Gilding the gaudy top with his long neck,
Hath such a vassal to bear the proud title.
Ah, but that tongue that doth comment on my humor
That says 'gainst my esteem hath wide a wide scope.
'Nay, look what thou dost persecute,
Although thy largess be thine alone.
' Look what thou dost ransom thyself for thee.
  ' Tis


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
By thee to whom mine own love depends.
The vengeful critic of mine own sense
Hath in his book profaned my praise,
And hath, by word of mouth, annexed
Thy own sweet semblance to my sensual delight.
O, but how, when, by word of mouth, thy good name appear,
How dost my great love make my love resemble?
O, but by thy coming and thy coming alone
My verse fears not, being full of borrowed words.
  So thy good name may be better termed counterfeit,
  Though my bad name appear before thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For 't'ill a dear nativity show me thy hand,
I straightway bow my head to greet thee.
Nativity shows me thy face, but not thy face
Even of such a worth of flowers as thou dost bring,
Or of such a beauty dost thou make a delight.
Thou hast given my birth to flowers of worth,
Which to this purpose I gladly yield,
To flowers of worth I give thee.
  Therefore be proud of me, for I am thine;
  And thence thou hast my liberty, by thy granting.

