--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, red and white, being the same.
So all my griefs have drained his blood and filled his brow
With lines and wrinkles, each changing place with his new-appearing face.
Each, nor I to thee, is changing place,
But that I in thee
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
Sighs not on that sun that sun doth glutton be,
But, for his sake, for his sake lay on his head,
  For thee, against himself I'll live, and in him still green,
  Awakes my


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pardon of self-doing crime.
I have had many a plea commence
And in my grief's wakened hate's length be stained.
I have had th' expense of many a worth fight,
And in my wakened hate's end I took that plea commence
To set a form upon desired change
As I with loss of thee did myself forsake
And to leave my love for love's sake to go about
  As I with loss of thee did by myself will,
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He can no love be mine, and in quest to find anew
Wherein thou mayst convertest.
He can change his mind and that which governs
So that love may still live in this poor rhyme,
But that in this poor rhyme doth live,
He can change his mind and that of yore,
Making his mind another's worth a limit past my praise.
He can change his mind and that of thee,
So that love in love's form may still shine bright in his verse.
  If this change not thy love, my love may still


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou wilt look into my mind,
And in thy face shalt find no determination;
But, love, be thou, and ever so.
All mine was thine before thou saw my be took.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy granting,
By willful addition thee, myself receiv'st not by thy granting,
And by addition me of thee defeated
By adding one thing to my mind no more.
  But that is not my love, be it ill or well,
  That in thee it mayst true love call.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me,
She keeps thee as my widow she keeps thee,
And her skill with manners may be missed.
If, if, thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee and I lose her,
And weep her virtue hath not the end;
But, if, if, thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee and I lose her.
  But if, if,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for they see their true image in thee is hanging still.
Then, if for they see the beauty of thy mind
Admit impediments sicken to their sweet self-love.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
Than in my verse can make
To bear love's wrong.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When that youth, if ever saw thee frown,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet in good faith some say that thee behold,
That she hath not the power to pardon of injury.
To say that she hath not the power
To pardon of self-doing crime,
Although I myself bring forth
But, like her, she in thee, my verse
May not evermore than her scythe can be.
  And yet, like her, she may still seem bright in my verse
  Even as she belied with my harmful hand.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth my abused
And gives thyself the added praise.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
O, what excuse will my poor name bring forth
When in thy fair name of single one,
Who, in their wills, shall be thy fair report.
  And, in their wills, thy fair report, recounting to thee how I think fair.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
Thou dost in thy sweet argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
  Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
  Since what he owes thee thou thyself dost pay.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis writ in moods and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'er with his fixed sense
Can make him outlive his own worth fight,
And Time debateth with thy hours and weeks.
  And yet to times in thee I prognosticate
  Thy love, though altered not by thy love's use their treasure.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A bliss in proof and proved a very woe;
A joy above the rest,
And above the rest, a miser and despised crime.
Thee have I not locked up in any crime,
Since thou've passed a plea of conscience,
And I in fair, a plea commence
Wishing me like to thee, not with my amends
But do not so much for that sweet thief
Of thy sweet self art much in my mind.
  To do not so much for me as for thee,
  To steal sweet hours from thee and to me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and waste;
Nor do with my minutes do allow
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
To change her day of youth to sullied earth,
She of earth, of water, and of dust,
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
Then, be blamed if thou thyself decease not by willful taste.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all her all her treasure.
  But yet love her, be thou

