--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose fair eyes, having seen thy beauty,
Cannot make any love of me better.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all the world's fair jewels;
And yet I cannot blame thee for that,
Though thou art mine, and I in thee.
O, what a bliss! Now that mine eye hath seen thy beauty,
Mine eye hath drawn mine own.
Mine eye hath seen thy beauty grow,
And mine own eye hath drawn mine own.
  So thou, my love, have eyes to pity;
  Or, if they see thee well,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To say I am wretched in heart and eye
Are subject to torture in other parts,
Even in my bones and in my cheek;
O, what a torment would that my poor state
Were to my bones and in my cheek
Were so blessed in you, that I am mute,
And weep for my friend's life and for him that loved you.
O, what a torment would that my body, which in your love doth lie,
Be forced to give back again, even to my death?
  O, no, my friend, my body is strong,
  And in you it


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
In my love's image.
Then can I not blame him for mine eye
Doth o'erlook, my love's pupil,
Which for thy good hath spent all his might,
To show me thy true self again.
Then can I not blame him for mine eye
When thou art mine, thy true self again,
That for thy good hath spent all his might to show
My true self again.
  But blame him for mine eye when thou art mine,
  That for thy good hath spent all his might to show
  My true self again.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou whose trespass hath drawn my sorrows far.
Thou whose trespass hath drawn mine sorrows far,
Thou whose trespass hath drawn mine own sorrows far,
And, for my sake, my own sake,
Join hands to kiss the base of love's base.
Let them kiss each other's eyes,
Whilst I in their sour thoughts maintain,
That my sour thoughts do penance forgive;
For, by their sour thoughts, I am cured of my woe.
  Lascivious grace, which loves but me,
  Lascivious grace, which


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art a counterfeit, and therefore canst not be trusted,
Unless thou be delivered from thy will,
By means of false advertising put in place.
Thou art the very same as a rose hath in the air,
But this thy flower proves:
Thy sweet flower hath a certain gravity,
Which in thy sweet buds grows;
And in it thou grow'st a certain lust.
  This thy flower proves by thy presence,
  Which in thy buds grew'st a certain disgrace.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, in their judgment, make their acquaintance
Thy basest shade doth bestow.
Love doth so commendate a title
That, 'fore thy sweet respect, 'tis well
To show thyself what beauty doth cover.
Look what beauty doth cover thy brow,
And thou dost thy beauty give.
Look what beauty doth cover thy face,
And thou dost thy beauty give.
  Look what beauty doth cover thy lips,
  And thou dost give them thine due.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas her husband doth give her merit.
I grant thou art true, sweet love;
But that she hath the strength of a wiry wretch,
A false witness to the shame of her husbandry,
Shall wean our time together beauteous?
O, know thou art true, sweet love;
And yet she that doth use my name,
She lives in my bosom, wherethrough the wrack
Her husbandry hath made a grave.
  And yet she lives in my heart,
  Which in her lays the burden of many a lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not slanderous in my speaking,
And for a vial of thy goodness still remain
Within my breast the proudest treasure.
In praising thee I do commend
Thy beauty and thy virtuous skill,
Which, being made tongue-tied, are to be admired
And tongue-tied those same words which thy name affords.
O, what a story have I heard of thee
That in praise of me leads to this ending?
  Thy story, which I have told thus,
  Shall in praise of all kinds be well.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such as thou hast in thy power.
For if thou wilt do this, my verse will be dull,
And my praise lost, if thou wilt do it rightly.
O, what a story have I had of thee,
That thou, despite thy jealousy,
Shall praise my deeds compare?
O, what a story have I had of thee,
That thou, despite thy jealousy,
Shall praise my deeds compare?
  To be praised of such a story,
  As if I were a goddess, being praised of thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their jealousy is expressed.
The scythe that bears my name, which I hold in high esteem,
Is a very bad o'er-locked treasure,
Which is better kept in a closet than in my breast.
I love thee in mind and heart,
And in me thou art the treasure of all evil.
  For if thou lov'st my pen, why dost thou use it?
  To make love writ in my brain is a very bad crime.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, being of less blame than mine own state,
Thou in thyself art more blessed than mine.
Thou, being mine, by thyself art more blessed than mine,
And, being mine, by thyself being mine,
Thou, being mine, by thyself being mine.
Thus, being mine, by thyself being mine,
Thou, being mine, by thyself being mine.
  This being the case, being mine, by thyself being mine,
  I am thy advocate, being thy advocate's wife.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, having fled from her husbandry,
She forsworn all bonds of husbandry,
And lives in filching disgrace;
So she bears it up to the top of hon'ry eyes,
Which, for their pleasure, use their brains to make.
Then, having fled from her husbandry,
She forsworn all bonds of husbandry,
And lives in filching disgrace;
So she bears it up to the top of hon'ry eyes,
Which, for their pleasure, use their brains to make.

