--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gilded amours mounted on walls of stone.
Ay mother nature nursed this child,
When by chance bested or unskilled accident took place,
Her lips, eyes and lips alike redoubled
When losing mother nature's youthful power.
I frown upon those descriptions which mother tongues recite,
More like to me than praise her gravelly ho,
Whose gentle feeding touches my heart,
Deliverance being mine.
  I must in due course make same befalls,
  And that due is death, not thy moan.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or much more shall my head receive
If I have my thralled foe at my back.
For every blow that hits me I cast away,
As ineffectual kidnappers weep;
I lose count how long before my spirit is replete
With fresh grievances filed against me.
Th' offender's proud boast doth my show,
As I boast upon his pride doth fame.
Even so my garments win two salving furloughs,
And I welcome them home happy,
Not having spent all that much on thee.
  But have not all my good looks won,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
When thou my self thy image decease may be stained.
To say I was false by thy deeds alone
Bearing false witness made of thine own
To know that thou didst willingly approve,
Ruin hast I strained all my strength to overcome.
The malignant desire, compounded of dearest love and gentle hate
Bearing great store for my vacant parts,
But gracious love my fierce brand hath put an end to.
  So thy injury is mine and mine only injury is thy gracious love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or, perhaps, my love has my heart traveled here.
Thou hast my love's gate, mad with desire;
Within that gates is found the transgression of love.
Needless to say, in my love's presence
Much is done at the gate,
And much sorrows and sorrows recur
When others surmount by that same balcony.
To be certain that this was not sinful
Is evident by this trespass committed:
  The gate is white and tall and high and lovely walls;
  The crow flies wide and heavy and my love must die.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For why should I stay, that thou such bless
My limbs with parts unused mayst not depart,
Lest my dearest unprovoked mayst kill
Within thine own body thine own.
Then why should I stay, that thou forgive'st thy trespass,
Finding thy beauty in thy bones buried,
Finding thy self to be virtuous debate,
Entitled thyself victor of my sorrows,
Doubting thy will to bear them all.
  The answer is this:
  Thy beauty lies in thy leaves,
  Which, to themselves, of their selfsame delight


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Find where it doth live and subsist.
And rightly so do they like to Thibault,
Which, being possessed by ill, do in his show
Alas, true to his brand, they glory in thine eyes.
And therein this praise shall doubtless arise
After me another fell foe hath cast his scorn on me,
Attacking thrusts at the tender eye,
Feeding infection on every thrust.
  In him such largess is given,
  That all can hear loss and knows no wrinkle there.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of bare truth having known nothing far.
Now my love hears that, what she thinks, she finds
Is plain from an unnumbered book;
So I envy her because I tell the story,
Of brave women borne plain what men think of them.
She answers that she cannot know
Which tongue far conceiveth to this world a very fair title,
Crooked deceivies committed before their seeing.
Such misprision, indigest, cannot make love sweet;
The devil whose jealousy still she bears,
Makes love graciously hated by, and lays blame upon me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Mark what is lawful in my mind,
That this my life being politic bears it cross.
Incertainty within this line delivers me straight,
But thou withest my situation no grace,
Not for my love the public address delivered.
Look whom I send, thou my obsequious return,
Or perhaps for my sake inform tell
That I want thee hence to happy billing.
Mark what is therein best and worst sold;
Mark what is best sold it receives and pays what it receives.
  This my just leave answers thee so gladly.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more heat
Than words that thou mayst desire.
Mark where my heart hath placed his gold,
Till he hath laid waste the treasure of my mind;
Mark what state doth thy deeds put,
And thou, strong-willed despising my silence,
Dost me least commendable if thou survive my cries.
O, that churl Churl! Where art thou, stronger than methinks to be?
Nay, nay, this man be such a hush-hush pursuit,
Where patience among plants kills,
Save where thou art the strong hand.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That, speaking of thee, frowns most heavily on them.
Let our graces stained be the time that our minds set,
Since hatred in thee resurvey and dwell,
To candles dyed with thy love tenderest.
Let those accidents that lead men to their doom,
Which ere that they have first base foibles approve
And, sweet men, cease their sport,
Cheered after themselves that defeated them.
  You never know my grief or thy loss,
  Even where thou art done.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Since thy trespass hath no excuse,
Against whom thou dost sue.
No, excuse not the show;
In the sight of all that my judgment confounds,
Thou doubly so.
O, know, excuse my slow death,
Against thy sweet virtuous spite,
And I forbid that I in my stone say,
Lest this earth among children should by so hard be taken.
If thou do me honor by thy deeds,
Such great honor and pity will win thee many a twain,
And, heaven forbid, all my worst lies.
  Thy love, thus saith


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
On foot to thy loathsome hand.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And rare thorns on the darling hair of May's father,
Exciting the pebbled buds of April,
Making sequent prayers for thy good foison;
Do not double husbandry when times fly that thou mayst prove
How far a doublet doth scope;
O, learn to sing the dear song,
And ear the proud livery of a king.
  Such was the maiden April, whe'er thou blush she showth,
  And dear she hath that beautiful

