--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath no whit, no color,
But is haply of a fairest hue.
For thou art better than high birth to me,
Thou art more temperate and more temperate.
Richer than high birth to me is,
Beauteous than high birth to thee is,
And thou gav'st a better vantage.
Thou that art now my all-triumphant rhyme,
And my all-triumphant verse on thee
Comes in the rearward of thine eyes.
  Yet thy all-triumphant verse on


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief;
Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief.
Nor can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief;
Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief.
Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief;
And neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief.
 Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
From trust to trust, of trust being forfeit.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
By what right do I hold thee,
And for that right am impaneled
To change hands, of tenants to trust,
And to be self-fixed are tenants to trust.
Till I prove thee virtuous, and thy glass will show thee
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow.
  Then give me thy due, and mine shall be thy glory.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
Thou art more strong than a flower?
Not so, though as sweetly blooms grow;
Thou art much more strong than a flower?
Not so, though as sweetly hemlocks grow;
He that fadeth with youth his ripe fruit,
Crawls back to his senses, and sweets grown common.
But why thy sweet virtue graciously lends,
Thou art so fond will th' impression fill
And sweets grown common.
  Therefore, to thy sweet self thankfulness th' impression be.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore thy appeal doth lie.
To be fair thou art enforced,
And to be false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thy appeal says I swear
A thousand groans, but I swear it to myself alone.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore my swear it.
  Then believe me, thou art as fair in love and hate
  As those whose beauties proudly proclaim.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath in this part some part.
For why dost thou spend
So much Time on Nature's graces?
Because thou art so chary
Of siren tears doth flatter in the heaven,
Thy masked not in thy deeds canst not disgrace,
Nor canst thou be false to trust.
Be thou the tenth fool, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, ten times happier,
Thou dost increase his glory fight.
  And him that calls on thee, thou


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath skill enough wit to sing.
But when I have seen her depart
From thy heart, tongue-tied tongues, and brass beams,
Thy beauty might be better expressed
Than those rude lines of her deceased husbandry.
He that calls on thee, let him depart
Without all bail shall be paid;
He that calls on thee shall be thy chief constancy.
  She that calls on thee, let him depart
  And be removed before the judgment can commence.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For truth proves thee my best of love.
If thou wilt, thou art my all the world,
And I in thee are all my friends.
If thou art all my world and I in thee,
Then thou art my all the world, and I in thee are.
And, if thou art all my world and I in thee,
My all the world besides methinks lie,
And I in thee are all my friends.
  Then thou art my all the world, and I in thee are.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than tongue.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every tongue says beauty must go,
Since tongues are thievish in their telling.
But tongues that speak well of thee,
Thy cheeks should be more red than mine,
And thou more red than theirs.
  And tongues that better teach
  To thee thy black is better than tongue.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth that hate comment.
Thou art as thy mother tongue, in whose freshborn child
Calls back the riper days, to say thine own.
Thou art as thy mother's tongue, in thy fresh invention
Speaking of which her child doth invent.
  And her new invention hath brought thee to this verse,
  Since all tongues have figured it dead.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the time,
And though thou art now the world's fresh ornament,
Compare it with the glowing of the eye,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
Compare it with the glowing of the eye's flame,
Compare it with the moving of the eye's flame,
And though it be outstripped by every pen,
My bad, my good allow?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
  And he that calls on thee, let him


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
Thou dost beguile me, too;
For why dost thou spend
So much time on thyself to woo me,
To say I am wooed of thee, too!
Thou art as tyrannous, though tyrannous reign,
As those vices that fester in their sweetness.
  And their appetites are merchandized far greater.
  Their appetites are merchandized far greater.

