--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles doth deceive.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee
Called thine own, and mourners seem well.
But when thy glass shows thee frowning,
Thou hast no such glass, for my grief lies.
Thou art as thy mother's glass shows thee
When she in thee doth Glow, bright Shining from the west,
But, much clearer, much clearer still doth stand.
  This she gave, and this her gift still doth live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless you yourself betray me to your will?
Might I not haply say "No, thank you very much,"
When I am remorseless and unrespected,
Thy weep would make the Earth devour her own sweet brood;
If my friend, thy deep religious love,
Were able to tear open his imprisoned eyelids
To see what the world could say more.
Your deep religious love may be better termed "the gentle heart,"
Though yet I for this term keep learning
By heart training, to whom it is thy duty.
  To whom it may be misused, how


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
Gentle thou art, now I lose,
Thy sweet face hath got my heart a third substance,
One that hath my heart's effect.
Now what's more pleasant than when thou art sold
To the willing patient, thy present pleasure being denied?
Beauteous thou art, now I lose,
The present guilty party hath got the present pleasure of that pleasure,
And that pleasure hath all too short a payoff.
  More pleasant have I had thought of thine,
  Since then thou art gone, dear heart.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which annoy me even more than thou art
When thou art all the better part of me?
Thou art thy foe, and I am shamed
By that which I think thou art.
More than enough is my verse,
Thou art more sweet than tongue, more temperate,
And gilding words more extreme.
I may not evermore sigh in thy heart's content
Though words come hindmost, which shall nevermore annoy me.
  But when they have devised a happy title,
  I love them but in thy sweet virtue.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That is my love, thy blind devotion.
Thou art thy advocate, too,
Not so reliant upon the rud'st or gentlest knights or greeing winds.
Grant, sweet love, thy glass will show thee how far a modern quill doth come
From the wiry concord that rhymers in thee.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May;
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
  But thy beauties still amazeth, and in them thou findeth new delight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when they behold the rud'st or gentlest sight,
They look farther than the eye hath shown
And farther than the eye hath shown.
How far a zoom could an eye fill
Pointing to thy beauty?
How far a zoom couldst thou cram
To make the most of all thy sum of good!
How thy great distance should from thy sight BeSpurred By All That Talk That Sunkenly Time Shall Kill Me:
  Kill me with spites, but that thy hate may still give life!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Serving with looks as savorless as any mother's child.
I grant my love is strong, though my love's strength be termed
By compare; my love is as rare
As any sheb of worth can boast.
Thence comes it that my love matcheth not;
That her quick wit may seem lacking,
But then my love shall outlive this poor rhyme.
  Therefore love may be better termed a babe
  than a babe used
  To compare with her, to show me how she does grow.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Made tongue-tied by authority, strengthened by authority;
These words shall be my all the world,
And I in thee come.
Thine eyes, that taught the scythe on high to sing;
My tongue, that taught the dumb to fly;
These same tongues may be heard in thee
Speaking of the dumb, that teach the learned
To be more blunt in thy art.
Duty strongly taught on thee, to whom I commend thee
  And keep thee to high noon.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And patience till I have prevailed.
Be thou my savor, then, being wooed of many,
Since my dull bearer will bear all my woe,
And patience till I have prevailed.
Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
Whilst, like a willing patient, I will drink
At least 'em with my strong infection;
And even so shall wet tires accumulate
Where breath most breathes, though my weak heart do breathe.
  Such is


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whose action is no stronger than thy tears?
When thou art all the better part of thee,
Then my love cannot complain
And haply of my false esteem hand deface.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my great deserts a limit past my praise.
For why dost thou spendst on me thy glory fight?
  I will comment upon that verse which thy sweet lips say:
  Thou gav'st me thine not to ruminate.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
The one doth false compare,
The other as good as fair?
For why dost thou spend Time on thy beauty,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
Or any of them, that thy worth compare
With thy worth's unknown?
Because thou dost deceive, my state,
The other as thy bett'ring, my coworking state,
Which shall patent to thee thy fair imperfect t.
  Look what thy state is doth spend,
  Which bounteous blessings thy state doth


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Killed from by thee, thy sweet self thou hast done!
How with this thy power do I haste me thence?
O, what hast thou got thee thee thee thee o'erward,
Leaving me, my poor beast abysm, to bear the woe.
As, to behold desert a beggar born,
My poor beast answered with thee, my lamb.
Yet did come after thee, not by thy going well
But by thine own gentle grace gave.
  This silence for my sin thou didst forgive;
  I am to blame thee only thine when

