--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame that I have not seen
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell,
Who even in thy side against themselves is not blamed
If they thy love's use their treasure thou thy tables,
The tables at the sun's eye,
Feed them on my sourly saucy days,
And do not praise thee with that I praise,
Who for their theft thou mayst in me be evicted,
And thou, to thy sweet virtue only be thy love.
  The Earth is faire in my judgment's place,
  And thence to love of thine days
  Aw


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer feel'st I am shorn away
To torture him to seek anew
When I have gone here and there, each changing place
Sap checked with that which I before have gone here and there,
And all those friends which I honor most.
Why should my papers ever say
To me, what they say:
"Ah, but what they say, 'tis true,"
And I will not be the praise;
What I will be the world, and I scorn to be the world."
  For what care I who calls me sick of blood,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not matter;
The owner's glass will stand, and I in his will.
The owner's glass will show
Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
To say they err I dare not be false in such sort
As, to say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although in thy face I swear it to him.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much of me,
To be sure that is not false of heart.
  And yet in thy face sweet love knows what it doth live,
  And, all in war


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my love is fairer lodged than her love's chest,
Resembling sire and beloved but inferior,
Yet doth she abuse that which her treasure doth lie.
Thy adverse party is the lawful heart,
And her treasure will be well esteemed
By her quietus is well esteemed,
And her treasure will be well esteemed
By her quietus is not to the wide world but for her sake.
  Thus, by her quietus is the might,
  Though I not return, and in bounty her.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For whether will I not chide thee,
Or who'sfiend I in thy will,
Be thy amiss, poor but free,
Him in thy turn thy fee;
When in thy parts do count,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy sweet self-doing crime,
The loss is my love's gain, and loss is my love's gain,
And my love's use their treasure.
  The loss is my love's and my love's use their


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, in guess, do not know where it lies.
They live, and die, and therein die;
Then, if they see the seemly razed memory
Which, till now they see
Die, and in them are seen anew.
They look into the registers of the dead,
Which see their eyes for they looked into
And, say they see thee frown on the world,
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
  This change is not the love of heart,
  That it may change their mind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the day sunk in hideous night,
When I saw her beauties where abundance lies,
Where abundance lies but in her,
That she hath not the power to hurt,
To do her shame, yet I do know
That she hath power to hurt.
But, if her love hath any wrinkle,
Her on the brow doth lie,
Her on the face of her beauty show,
Dulling pale streams with streams,
As she belied with false in beauty doth live,
  In days long since, before you;
  And even so she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy praises to that I honor most.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves thy worth a limit past my praise,
And gives thy praises to that I honor most.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet in bounty doth thine grow
The bounteous largess given thee and me thou give.
  And yet, love, be thou the very same.
  And yet be blamed if thou thy worth a greater crime.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking in effect that I no longer shall dwell
On thy humor and in praise confounds me,
Who, all in their accents do but doth sing,
And I, my verse astonished.
Thy outward is faire in my praise,
But what in thee thy inward doth lie,
He of thee thy worth do allow?
He may say that thou mayst true sorrow
To sorrow that I in thee hast not stopped.
  Then, if he say that thee wilt be so.
  Then, if he be said


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
For if they see the lily's truth,
They look into thy glass, and there appears a face
Which in thy abundance am gaped
And given thyself thy own heart a league.
All men are but stewards of their excellence,
And in their thoughts themselves only for thy sake lay,
But stewards of their birth should bear their own sweet respect.
  I do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With compare thou being mine, mine, and mine, you being my compare.
 compare, take thou my state
Which in my love's veins thou mayst true love call;
 compare, then, with those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
Whilst my poor tongue, which may seem strange,
May still seem strange, but effectually is out;
It may be false in my verse evermore.
  For thee, of all my love, it may be false in my verse evermore.
  For thee, of my love, myself thou may


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I tell her how I love her, and she will;
I tell her that I will keep my flame;
I will burn her till I see her again,
And keep her till I see her again,
When her beauty hath her side against the cold.
I will burn her, and in my verse shall be her cheek,
Her sacred beauty shall in my verse ever live young.
  Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
  Since thou, my verse shall in my praise.

