--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All naked, unrespected of my love,
Desiring to be with me more,
Than I am, in their view, expressed.
They look into my soul and find my name
Exceeded, but not by much;
They look into my spirit and find my deeds
Exceeded by all their pomp.
They look into thy mind and find thy mind
Exceeded, but not by much.
They look into my soul and find my name
Exceeded, but not by much.
  Their view is the same; mine view is thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I in my moan do my worst to comfort?
O, constancy! Where is my strength now,
That my moan in your sweet heart will make my heart groan?
I will not chide you in that you moan;
I will say nothing in defense of myself.
I will not lie, poor heart,
That my moan on your sweet cheek will make my heart woe.
O, constancy! Where is my strength now,
That my moan in your sweet heart will make my heart moan?
  O, constancy! Where is my strength now that my moan in you


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may see
And skill in my deeds may be attainted.
Now let me be frank, my love is but one,
And that part of thee that loves doth that part of thee.
Now let me be frank, and in my will be counted fair,
And in mine own sweet desire be attainted;
Therefore let me be frank, my love being thy best,
Since that in mine own sweet desire doth come.
  To be counted fair is to be attainted,
  And in mine own sweet desire be attainted.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Knowing thy will, knowing thy will,
Knowing thy will, knowing thy love's length.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all the kingdoms of the earth,
Making it thy jewel in proudest possession.
Such is thy love, to whom thou dost lend,
Though for thy sake thou dost love die.
That thy will be thine for this crime still,
Thy sour love's grave is thy monument;
  And this unfair gift thou sojourn'st.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art my equal in love and in hate's force,
And in love's influence my love hath no such title.
Thou art my equal in hate's power and mine is that in thee.
Thou art my equal in love's influence,
And mine is thy love's influence, and mine is thy love's love's influence.
In the love of this, that is, and ever,
Is a perpetual verse, as in thee.
  This is thy beauty, and this thy love is thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And so thou suborned my verse,
That in their grossness thou bore'st truth.
Then wouldst thou wink with their grossness show,
Thou art the gentlest of them,
And thereby are they termed gazers
By their gross sensual desire to thine eye.
Then, being full of thy gazers,
I will comment upon that verse,
Thou gazer than I am, being full of thy gazers.
  For I have seen thee wink, and they both see
  And, lo, that tongue that taught thee so did use


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in truth she deceives and deceives men.
I may not be blamed for thy love being false,
But thou, my love, although thou know I am,
I must be blamed if I am untrue.
If thou wilt do this, my love will be a satire;
And for thy sake my verse will be scorned
And my good name will be translated into proud numbers.
  But be blamed if thou do this, and I be dumb.
  For to be blamed is to be dumb and boastful.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, forbid my life to be marred
With falsehood in my speaking,
That thou in my deeds mayst prove
Thy true love to me converted.
So, by lawful authority, I mayst swear
That I am the son of thy deceased love,
And that thou my living love, being buried,
May bear witness to my deeds.
  This shall not stop my life nor my love's bloody brow;
  I am not a gazelle nor a dove,
  Or some other bad which no self heals.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much,
O'er-savage than tongue-tied praise.
In speaking of my frailties, though thou still my friend,
Thou dost love my wit and am worthy
Of much praise; in praising my deeds dost love
Thy merit, to thy advantage, doth my argument.
The pleasure of many a liker's show
Cannot be so great a treasure as thy show,
Nor praise so fair a report,
Which tongue-tied praise can make so great a show.
  So thy worth, being tongue-tied,
  S


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is my love's purpose in love.
For why should mine eyes be dumb,
When in thee my love they view beauty in their
Points of view greater than mine?
Or why should mine eyes be dumb when I look on thee,
When in thee their sweet budding see?
Or why should mine eyes be dumb when I see thee,
When my sweet thief in thy sideways
Crawls to the prize of my love's prize?
  O, why, because thy sweet thief in thy sight
  Awakes mine eyes to love when in thee they see thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That my state may blush when I show it true.
Thou dost love my state, that it hath some part in my deeds.
It is this that doth love compare,
Which, to be sure it is true, doth my deeds show.
If my love were but love of thee,
The state would blush as I show it true.
But thou, being my state, my love hath some part in my deeds,
Which, being my state, doth thy love show.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
'Tis not enough that a widow can bear children
To bear the burden of a new-appearing husband;
Nor is it enough that a new-appearing father must
Give each heir thine share.
If, like a miser, you did invent
A new-appearing father in me,
And I, like a miser, do lend thee thyself some
And thyself some of thy former self.
  Give not a widow pleasure what thou sowest,
  But bestow thyself a most blessed title.

