--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy picture cannot make any difference.
I have seen thee frown on black night,
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
But thou my shade, which thy glass shows
To be fairest in my judgment's place.
Thou that art now my all-triumphant cross
Gored, compounded am I with clay,
Three times thy beauty; but now thy all-triumphant triumph
Doth appear, and my rose looks fairest.
  And yet thou, all-triumphant, doth my all-loving song.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what good turns woman for woman,
Is it enough that my hand against myself bring
To bear the tattered guilt of my crime?
O, no. Sweet husband, if woman wert thou art still able,
To make love seem like a swallowed bait
Which womanizers delight, but that thou no farther than thy appetite
Cannot hurt her well or hurt her well.
If thou wert womanizer than my mistress,
The basest weed outbraves my wife.
  But if thou art woman-like in thy workings,
  Mine hand is better suited to break a woman's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may see
Thy beauty still doth play the tyrants to thine own.
For what better ornament can say
Than this rich praise buried age, which methinks still doth lie?
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make the world away,
But let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
Look what a better ornament doth make
Than this, the proud ornament of thy age,
Which proud of his wealth still doth boast.
  Then what better ornament d


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath his want, his own wish will be well esteemed;
Thou art thy foe, his own self too cruel.
If thy will, thy revolt shall be more strong,
Than 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence.
More than that my hand can hold thee but by thy will;
Thou art my all the world, and I must strive
To know thy all, all the world well,
For thee all the world may see it, but me all the world must see it.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee, I'll ride thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, and fairest in all respects held.
Beauteous clouds thy sightless distance cannot provoke,
For 't is best to thee I vantage,
Beauteous clouds thy gentle addition canst not provoke.
Beauteous clouds thy gentle addition canst not provoke;
Therefore thou send'st thy gentle rain doth rain on my brow,
As on thy brow doth Thine own.
  And if thou wert not married to my content,
  Then thou art a tyrant state, which shall reign tyrannous.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown, frown more.
Thou art more bright than thy jealous
If thy jealous thoughts had power to hurt thee;
To call upon that sweet aid they must attend
Within the level of thy frown.
Thou that art more bright than thy jealous
If thou thy jealous thoughts couldst steal thee all thy treasure;
And, much clearer than thou art, they know better
Thou art more bright than their jealous thought.
  And, to be most clear, they look far off,
  As those that look on thee in thy wakened hate.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who stole thee by paying too much rent;
For how much more praise deserved thy love's deserved?
Thou art more rich than thy fair pupil doth admit,
And for a goddess wert thou first created
Such cherubins as thy sweet self resemble.
How much more praise deserved thy love's deserved?
O, how much more praise deserved thy love's use
When thou art all the better part of me?
  How much more praise deserved thy love's use
  If thou couldst take that away,
  And from me thine own bright eyes would give it away.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Made tongue-tied by authority, taught to thee
And forbidden to change.
Beauteous, blunt, and to the wind stopped
Are all tongues at my beck, bow, and wait,
And to the wind stopped are mute.
Thou art forbidden to speak in tongues that speak well
Of things forbidden in thee.
Speak well of my bad which thy good name brings forth;
Thou art better than tongue-tied beauteous mother
Which tongue that more hath more expressed.
  I am to be slanted as tongue-tied beauteous mother


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in thy cheek
Is a taint of mine own weakness wanting,
Which proves more short than learning to moan?
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Which for their habitation chose out thee
Of their own sweet virtue, to whom I am confined?
  The hardest knife ill used
  Makes dead wood more blest than living lips;
  And tongues more blunt in their invention.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth that hate comment.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my body thus with mine eyes is deceived.
Thou art more bright in knowledge and in hue
Than in thy soul's thought, which in thy soul doth lie.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
  But why thy lamb thou wilt dost so, I fear the worst.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Since thy dear merit hath not shaken my hand.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
As, say, mine own false adulterate eyes
Have stol'n my bad, my good friend lie;
Thou canst not love make me tongue-tied speaking,
Since thy good friend hath stol'n my speaking.
If thou wilt do this, slander me half as hard;
Even so thy slander may be used
To make me tongue-tied speaking of thee.
  Incest slander in this sort of crime hath my pen,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husbandry of his frame
Is putrefaction, tempests in heaven;
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Now with the bloody husbandry of his frame
Is broken, and eternal summer,
Made tongue-tied by authority,
Savage, extreme, cruel, not to trust;
Look whom authority hath not taught to leap
To new heights, despite of winter's day,
Now making summer's conquest seem stronger than thou art.
  For strength, to whom authority hath not taught,
  Leese this son of mine to thine own.

