--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou behold'st the rack
On thy body's neck that hath strayed from thy sight.
Look what thy neglect had done to beautify thy sight,
For thy love removed thee, and I feel thine,
For looking into thy glass shows that thou are still young.
Look what thy neglect had done to beauty added;
Look what thy neglect hath done to health and well-tuned song,
Which I adore so well that in thine ear I sing,
  Thine eyes, thy love's due, mine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If every fair tongue doth my sorrow tell,
And every fair maiden doth sing hymns o'er dull;
Against that vile outbraves every good hymns count.
Since every fair tongue o'er insults my sport,
Shall I but moan as you would from me.
Since every fair tongue doth so fond a story tell,
That for a just prize looks fair,
Which will do me shame when I am dumb.
  Wretched, poor, and thrice perverted,
  Kill me with every blow that hits me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will live for another look, mine own life being spent.
Yet dare I say that thou once mine eye
Is full of beauty set, and others with thy sight
Look more wondrous than mine own,
While I in thy dark thoughts devise my grave,
And curse-call thy beauty hid in hideous sight.
So what of thee thy images do mock,
What of thy beauty methinks thy face
Supposed thyself thou wouldst show on thine own face.
  Thou mock'st my soul, 'tis true, it lives in thy face.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Forgot upon thy wanting to have more,
Thy unused beauty than thy looks possess,
And thy love knows no comfort therein.
Hearing this in private what thou enjacent
Within the seeing is enough to show me thy view.
Sometime in the morning doth my love leap,
Not seeing what thy seeing doth show,
But then, out of thy gaudy state,
Cannot help but moan out in thy seeing;
Then thou wilt be contented, for my sake thou hast my delight.
  This alone thou hast for thy benefit, mine alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou hast invoked the favor of thine eye,
To witness my appeal in good faith,
That I may allege thy trespass and prove thee right.
Whilst this my trespass hath cost thee thy soul
A part of thy beauty's truth,
A part of thy beauty's truth's truth's brav'ry,
A part of thy beauty's truth's brav'ry's edge,
A part certified counterfeit of thy worth.
  Yet this my rebus was not thy rebus but a part;
  For that gift is this, that thou double pays it thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Look what divine grace doth spend,
And what is the blessed benefit thereof.
Thee have seen beauty in cherubins
And cherubins in pure formards.
They have seen the cheeks of youth
And of beauty's form crowned in minutes.
They have seen surly mountain tops rise
And beauties dress up the desert,
Whose gracious gift hath misplaced,
On purpose made of princes so excellent.
  Yet they have not seen what riches in thee
  Conceal thy treasure in thy breast.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she hath half her wealth still.
I grant my love hath the means,
Of mansion and thrift, of some strong desire,
But that her wealth of good is so great,
Making of thee an all-powerful husband.
Thence comes it that I perceive her proud,
And she at length decease,
Making of thee another my sport,
This time much confounded, yet still admiring
Her beauty and her conquest.
  And so my great love with her adverse time
  Consumes the treasure of her hours,
  And thus my verse, from beginning to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
From whence thou diest thou come, whence thou diest,
Lest my poor self should do the saying.
"Ay, very well," said I, "I am a bastard,
That thou thy gentle breast doth form a better husband.
I do not envy thee, know not how much I treasure thou,
Lest mine own sweet self should say such a thing.
"Ay, very well," said I, "I am thy mother's child;
Thou but for thy gentle love dost make my flesh."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Too much of spirit.
That tongue that tells the story of thy days still
Points out beauty's beauty still, despite all frailties.
Ah, that tongue that tells the beauty of thy days
Points out folly's art and times seeming,
Points out skill's and beauty functions still,
Points out simplicity's excellence and turns to praise.
  Ah, that tongue that tells the story of thy nights
  Makes even beauty's epitaph quite so.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That it loves what it receives. Thus all the best essays of my wit
Are cut short by this verse;
For the love that 'tis in me expressed,
I must return again to my verse,
But love 'twixt your lines and I am done.
O, if love be flattery, so be my pen,
And tongue that hears my words and thinks my pen is good.
That's my defect, my love being double;
If I enjoy it more than tongue doth guess,
I find the proof in thee.
  O, change your mind, change my mind's


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against whom all virtuous anger is directed.
Look whom thou thyself dost break free,
The prey of my adverse mind,
And to thy harmful self impair
Thou shalt be proved right by thy deeds;
For what shall be thy remedy, whether by thy deeds or me?
For thy harmful self doth thine own good lend,
And him to repay me becomes our sport.
  Thus do I pine and disdainfully view those who think contrary,
  Receiving from thee what thou dost bring.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Roses glassy with them she falls,
Her husband bide each twain,
Supplying the heavy rain with her brief halt.
Then, as if from some celestial purpose sufficed
For this blessed privilege did bring home the latch,
And out-subdue lover in her seat
Ruin thence all her beauty and all her sway,
Making the ambush where thou art.
  Lascivious with envy after her,
  Receiving no love for her sport,
  Not dressing well for her delight.

