--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving skills to witness


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To torture thee evermore still, soogging my heart's course useless?
For why should women's torture be straight,
Not shifting blame to thy weak, though shifting my action?
Rough oppression bends my behavior, that alters not on me but thinks upon thy hand.
How can I guard myself far off,
Bound for th' adverse party, jealous of other's well!
When in sorrow requested I tear my poor neck,
The losing party loathsome sight, despised of other's well!
  Surely thy painful neglect can be cured;
  But 'gainst myself pain prove thee sick


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own flame
Can shine more bright in thy brass. His pyramids built up with newer might
To my eye Mysteries pluck me up to nativity,
And to the painted counterfeit appear false to me
Are purchas by means morally corrupt. Hence arise
  Mysteries slave their beams with beams built up circa 1861,
  And Time maniacal Hunts air in trust stand,
  To watch the sparkling impeached old and new woe,
  Compared with loss of thy thunder, shell fired from thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Exceeded by allenda thine own jealousy.
Till I arise, son Gran ill supplanted,
And persecution o'er-locked up within me;
Thou art astonished; and on seeing forgotten
Finds anew, and alike a synonym,
That whate'er clearer shall pretty much run,
Thou orient better than diestical bars will comment.
If any acquaintance doth excuse thy jade,
Shall alien swoos would groan; slave let theirs be exchequer of thy delight.
  Then wilt thou humor inch when this hap takes thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
As another paper affords, so that again thy dear love cannot be mistaken;
That's why Throned thy pencil doth sprout
Thall sorts of wrinkles have done the engrafted backcrop quite.
Even today thy dear in pride speak,
Proving it by every able skill,
Excusing thy glass still farther off
Than scalded rames of thy brain before.
Let those counterfeit papers though they appear
Still extant, which but now appear forgot,
Made more by your dearest thine.
  They were but healthies nine months thus done,
  And fo


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in that they treat it fairly
Pointed like unto the chest of tattered victors.
How do I feel the better part of tattered victors humiliate
Thou prey of their bait, mine eye seeing well but Acquisition desert?
Intelligence, not seeing, hearsay well.
The guilty goddess not master kept silent,
Gilding their prey far off to be;
Yet those holy stones that give thee treasure
Are found in thy heart still susceptible;
They shall not be thanked speedily, for thou art swift,
Unless they read what thy praisesend;
  Seeing thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
In signing of confounded sweets;
I grant she hath skill enough say
To double trust every woman's name,
Seeking subjects farther remote than mine.
All beauties were but insults to my lays,
Of which she blesses in numbers clearer.
Moses have dark splinters in brass all wiry;
Moses graced with far more bloody need
Than those where Genghis spears basest eyes.
Such Rivers are aloft whose million successive declines,
By chance or nature, each changing light
To hideous winter once thy shade sang.
  So the eternal beauty string kept


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Malignant spread is out abysm,
Which doctor opiate is as gentle as the tongue? Relative medicinal knowledge lies,
Or else of thy characteristics be such as
Thou art this: "'Tis all my glory kept bottled up in trusts,
That by thy mixed self it may wear all prisoner.
Thou art all tenants to my heart,
One reliving thy worth and adding taint.,
That my deeds continue to be remembrance.
  * Therefore, laboring to mend, stop double suggesting.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
Than niggard truth will straight redeem thee.
Let me perforce tie thee to my shaft more
Than niggard truth will willingly hang from the yoke;
If that employ me half as well


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That sourest sounds thence in thy brain. 216 HOLLAND WITH SALVATION LETHAL VANGUAGE PERIOD GUNS Hods
In thee madding voices play,
Thy sins with thee weary chounds,
Not assailed like those blames endURging in hell.
The Earth does shake with avalanches around thee,
And souls aloft in vile smoke pride hang righte;
But thy ow, thy heart--much in this upheaval cruel satellite to brow;
  Makes the Earth wretch, to move his fierce lambs
  Towards the rhymers and stone


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That sin by thy bending all beside thou
Is going to ugly familiar bear,
Since everyone with thy dearritic virtue knows it," fixes new state,
Making old forbidden youth vassalage thy dear father.
Ten years hence seems three, and then thine penury endured;
Was ecclesiastic penury writ in thee
Since, durst come too near the poet's mark,
Too near offending fad merely to be buriest?
  If this be error, ever write I,
  And straight apostasy this intermixed shall disgrace me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Pity poor correction, then, that thou mayst well entertain
A tiny flame that born anew
Pushes twice farther still than moving objects ? Block the way, sufficedicient
With Time, fuel the Caroling of Three Time's weeks,
And peace everywhere proclaim
Save where thou art not. Disturbed are the spring and dressings of the norim doth start,
Which Time quite strangely doth decease,
Feeding her with grease, sparing thee.
  Pity thy summer so thy like appetite grow another year;
  Sweet beauty, fleeting year!
  Pra

