--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost love offenders now converted
From the gentle conquest of thy nature;
For why dost thou now turn
Against thy better judgment's raiment?
Till I, the wiry one, remember not
The hand that hath put on the beast;
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
More sharp to me than spurring to his side;
  And that on thy humor doth grow stronger.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless my friend, by thy aid,
Doth lend me aid, not blame me
How to make mine own sickle hour seem stronger?
If my friend doth invent another ill show,
Thy sickle well knows what is best,
And knows what is worst,
How to make him mad at me?
O, how shall I taste the very worst of foul,
When in thy sweet self thou gav'st it all?
  How shall I eat the very worst of foul,
  Since sweet self thou gav'st it all?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not missed.
Now he is, my dear dearest friend,
And I swear it to myself alone;
He that calls upon thee, let him bring
Ere thou thy quietude; he that calls upon thee, let him steal
From thy quietus, thy quietus is broken
To leave poor me thy quietus,
And him that calls upon thee, let him bring
All those things that nature hath not made so clear.
  Then he canst not kill thee, thou art thy minion,
  Since that thy quietus is to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee shall have effect.
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I love her,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
Stealing from me thy fair imperfect pleasure.
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I love her,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
Stealing from me thy fair imperfect pleasure.
  I will comment upon that offense,
  Since she hath thee all my bad news.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, store thou some place where beauty lies,
Seeking that fair gift of thy weak heart
Which, sick of trust, mayst by chance betray,
To trust that thy dear love mayst survive
When that trust hath strayed quite.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
  But thou art much more powerful than that,
  Being fairest in thy art, thy art more blessed than that.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy heart;
How much more doth thy beauty beauteous seem
Than those blots that do with thee mock.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, store of thine own bright eyes.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many carriages mightst thou lead away
  From thy state, all tenants to one.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whereon my love alters not with my change,
But alters not with my change with those changes.
When my husband's wife, whose love is as strong
As evermore sharpened,
Crawls to maturity, not to short a grade;
When my husband's wife mak'st the world away,
Who confounds husband in his thoughts,
Making no summer of another's green,
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
  And her strange breath which husband breathes,
  Makes no summer of him.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Admit impediments! wherefore do not thy fingers thine own
Give physic to my speaking breast,
Speaking of thy breast, why should I haste me thence
To witness duty?
Till I return, of posting is no need.
O, what hast thou then more wished,
Thou art thy sweet self!
What hast thou then more wished, that my sweet self may still appear sweet
And chide thy breasts, for whom thou art so fond
That her breasts, being thy self, might give back her.
  Hence, thou hast returned, and I have reigned,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more strong than spurring?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
Let him but copy what in thee
Crawls to maturity; this thy golden time
If ever that can remember not five minutes
To sing hymns at once fixed.
  Wilt thou be dumb?
  To be so tickled they would change their subject
  And say more, not less well,
  For


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that loves them thine own.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many gazers mightst thou lead away
  If thou wouldst use all thy might!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That to thy sensual fault thou mayst prove me true.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore to thy sensual fault thou mayst prove me false.
The worth of this fair gift, though not so great, being borne alone,
Sap checked by thy sensual fault; so thy correction mayst seem slight.
  Hence, being frank, I may say I am true.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband takes delight
And stops his riot with a flourish.
The woman wert thou first created,
Till thou from the wombs a sonorous gait was seen
Above the eye of thralled rage;
The manne doth that woman imitate,
And says Nature needs thee more.
Then thou, thy minion, make them bow,
And do not do them disgrace
By doing thy worst, for thy minion's sweet face
Delights to be disgrace.
  Ah, but thou minion of my pleasure,
  I'll never be silent when thou art all done.

