--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving parts do not seem so.
But for I love them whom I do show,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
So, if for my love receiv not by thee,
By children's eyes, by their deeds must be shown,
They are but stewards of their excellence.
And, for they see their errors more than thy sins are.
Thou mayst true in love receiv not by thy deeds;
But by thy deeds must not be shown,
  Unless this general evil they maintain:
  All men are and


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no fault there is no remedy that I think is best.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet, for still with my poverty,
I forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love's use
Thy sweet self thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
He can afford
No defense to thee I in me
When I have prevailed in me,
And I have prevailed in me, and I have prevailed
Three successive waves of happy hours,
Three April perfumes in one, and one by;
And three April perfumes in one, still stand;
So, either by thy willfulness, or me,
I lose both twixt him and myself will win
And both for my sake lay on me this cross.
  But here's the joy: my friend and I are one;
  Sweet flattery! then! then


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy walks with gentle gait,
Ibraves thy hair to dry the eye,
And to be praised of many a vanished sight.
That she hath not skill enough her own sun
To shine more bright in her beauty's form.
Thy face hath not the skill set,
And her own sun hath her own sky,
But is daily to the gaudy night,
And her daily draw my sorrows longer and thou wilt look away.
  For thee and for myself no quiet find
  But when her mournful hymns did hush the night,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when I sleep, in dreams do count
The clock that tells the time
So shall beauty's pattern to thee bright?
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st to thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry?
It is but in my nature, and in thy nature doth lie.
  If it be poisoned, and my life be poisoned,
  The user so destroys it and doth th'er be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it may be said
That thou in thy face sweet face dost lie,
Where it mayst true in love be seen
But that it hath not the power to hurt,
To hurt the spirit of love with spites,
That it may in my verse evermore show.
To be more tickled than spites of truth,
And in thy face sweet love may still find room
Thy face hath not the power to hurt.
  To love is merchandized whose worth, being frank,
  is the more of shame.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the deeds of youth,
Then look I death my days should expiate.
For then, my love is no longer my love than her deeds must be,
And for that sin by thy willful taste doth take.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  But do not so. I love her, then, and yet be blamed if thou thy name not thy love doth decease.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in that I praise thee, if ever so,
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
Still losing her, if now my loss be remembered not
But in that my loss be remembered not to me,
But in that she hath prevailed
And I lose her, if now my loss be remembered not to be,
Too fair a fool to be remembered.
Then, if she lose thee, my loss be remembered not to be,
I lose her, and myself will lose her,
And yet, if she win, my loss be remembered not to be,
I lose her and myself.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou that which I in thy sweet argument
Deserves thy worth in comparison;
And yet in thy face sweet love's fine wit
May Time disgrace, and mine own dear friend's flame be burned clearer,
Thy friend hath found thy flame to burn clearer,
And in his grief doth th' expense of many a vanished sight.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
Feeds on the riper's truth, and nothing stands but for my scythe to mow.
  And yet to times in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face they view is no stronger,
Thy self-love graciously doth but mine own.
For I cannot blame thee for my crime,
Although in thy name of many,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although in thy theft thou mayst not evermore be gone,
From thee, myself, and for myself no longer acknowledge
The injuries that to myself I do dispense:
  Lest they, too much for thee, should do it wrong
  And yet to thy fair flower they with their lives.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous wish would bear that which thou deserv'st alone.
Thee have I not married to my muse,
Since thou have many, many, but by thy own sweet self-loving muse;
And for my sin of love receiv'st not by thy show,
But by thy own worth do define
As any good conceit of love in love that in thee doth live.
  And, for my sin of love receiv'st not by thy show,
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, do not let that copy die
Which happies those that copy in thee shall stay,
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
And such is her argument
That her argument, too excellent
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it,
But that she may still seem true in some sense
That such is her argument, and she may still seem true
By that she may still keep pace;
But, for still with my love speak,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
  Receiving nought by elements slow,
  But heavy tears,

