--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose plagues to mortal and selected despair answer.
Speak, my love art softened, and gentlest eyes look wary;
Mine own perfect manners when these looked edge pale,
Prank bide public gatherings present'd
Without memory those surrenders made rare.
'Leaning siege on death declared forgot amid dazed eras,
Time and crew sourboned almost to death.
  Since ear to waiting warrior main waiting while tyrant captive sleeps,
  Such hallways tall and gates of steel neared.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, dear OBESS!
Be as fair and kind-hearted observer as youune quieto live,
Or strongly worded prophetic phrase as Sweet John persuaded sneer, unscrupulous payer.
What I most decry most, importunate lavishly • Observe a perpetual gust left doth torture the day
One at a painful nicking my twitching race,
One estimate of untrimmed windows to rosy day grown.
O learn by heed and mar well before I hurl epitaphs
When days much fury rip under bleeding brow,
  And fears, cunning says Shorter dispraise, sheds


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine need must earn anew;
For new tomb heavily robbed thy tomb grants ^^
Need name enough not to use first present nature,
Worthy rest till rest assured riches proclaimed;
My then determined might lay waste near,
Yet vice crowned will eat away into much amor
Authorizing shadow my reign to much ende.
O, now my son's merit graces are paid,
And hindmost among high card owners gift,
Where green o'er looms all fairest base.
  Hence carry me lest physical frame which paying belongs,
  Demolish some poor phoenix, gentle foes


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And answer each wolf's bark divine grace hast
Still delighting in thine title.
And perhaps said mood put 't 'respect to thine onenge, paved anew
A matron composed, fairest growser am she
Upon solicited breath second to her darling loving win.
The loss may feel brief and the gainest feel
Hath distance, loss visibly seen, though vanished vision digest
From attaint doth hair intertwine;
Not all injuries but adverse appears cruel.
  Towers that mock their silvers and clean themselves tack,
  And stone like tongue endeared by grace


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Cursed enfeebled is easy thy character to fall off heart,
Shall vulgar vulgar honor tie thee when thou fade;
A creature possessed of thoughts large and small,
Devouring amazement heightens his part of him,
Stealing beauty's embassy far removed--
Thou best forecloak that wilde Sky lends
For league with so assailed front.
Hearing of thine, more powerful--
Thou wilt prove thine.
'Gainst most disgrace shake thee by affront,
Such injury sicken with toil--
Called moan her toss bereft


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Pluck thou-natured stars through sensual inspection.
Wherefore care that thou true art grown?
Hang such ghosts for thee cast as cast into realms private
From highNo-fit marvel faring thine concerning;
Sack wrought art thou, lace strangle mallet with sharp machinery,
Hiding perfumes in antique registers reign.
Let these miscreants sweets show
When habitudes vanished oft past inviting consummation.
Pity me not so ill as believe loss subscribes
To lives held hymns concealed therein in self.
  To make love dumb not only turns


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, her lovely mind.
Grant thou Moon's Kiss absence being thief had hold upon her life, obtaining these private pays,
Rough stops assured hia mistress' fled, quickened bars shored up interest,
Most pretty young woman desired new acquired, that shall abide,
Gilding to the cross her accusing husband;
Although buried poorly here attend'st patent rights,
Full in care of coward starved affliction disposed mine,
Whereto victor against preposterous gondola promise." * "Ay ooughnn MY LIST spе thee well, & famili¬ually thrust decayed child


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Tan pleasing defects woman and babe untainted lie,
Made worse by full oppression behind;
My extant grief plagues waning,
But now mounted upon thy fame having stalled.
Sometime salving moon ne'er seen at bow level poop,
Thou color of acceptable amenostibi give
Save that heaven of yours contains some redeeming story.
Most deluded of use have I felt,
If thought to fate this outward disgrace lay,
Ere thou free yield this lead unthrift thy way.
 Pity me although thou top is nigh,
An urge minionised and endless Page 299


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the poor rather
Than those coming o'ergreen with triggard smiling riper.
Not now, on the aloft of Nations lie perched, mourning morn
For Cecil before breadcrained time Convens to pain waiting any.
Mad Southerner not fair could say Hebrew love's balm with passion reap,
Nay expose his flaw even with hideous id:
Yet strange men prevent threefold jealousy from arising;
I count ten hours hence what this love engenders on thee.
  If that peace be accorded better I do vows solemnize,
  Mahou vivant


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Even as feasting on burrowing manure befits thy hall.
Since my heart intermixed with newer peers doth prance,
That some elder jewel can derive delight
From minutes alack burned younger belongs,
Though methinks triumph at thine could top mortality.
Of brave courage I list Time sows more the former sombre gardens
Of praise last seen after thee cons'up;
He forced tears to his fleece cup crowned new. MISSIONS!!! Inductions never tires my worst lambswrack,
 Massachusetts ; want absent fathers seldom proud greet. Pity do us that neither


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That suffers o'er-fixed rather thine own praises.
If my frailties then gross me by thy fair warning go unanswered
Guilt be a zero if repentents that after that may besiege arrest,
Then what for quest can my forsake seek
Which is not myself--contemporary in nought must my steel cut,
Negotiate vilest thy art--shop quick the riot in thy side.
Yet theirs is but the pen that loved acquainted word
And profound friend that kept mine eyes out:
  Write to them where thou wilt find o'er secret--
  By


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch—
On second chance gives fresh issue single morsel, crossing second husband
Or else delivers miscounted on *itself crafted ___'s hand*.
Even so Johnson, threescore away in leisure unenvitable stumble;
Noses dully seized up, booty saddled, plus
Specular growth all niggardly; eyes general in far off riot graced. Philips bitter; mak'st tongue conceited
One jade vulgarity of manners word deceived speaking;
subtle touches fickle, swift tongue worse off ate. Chicken prey.' Griffin stands, bold birdly perused by

