--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy looks with me strangely.
Thou dost love my bad, and my looks good,
Knowing thy heart doth use every fair
To make me tongue-tied speaking.
Thou dost love my fair complexion, and my false lips,
Hath been tongue-tied to thine own.
How dare I, speaking in tongues that can speak
To change thy subject, speaking in manners strange.
  How dare I, speaking in tongues that can speak
  To change thy subject even there.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For there is more to me than in the mountain;
And, if I be gored, I am a worthless warrior.
How much more praise deserved thy name should expiate
Than niggard truth would willingly impart?
O, how much more praise deserved thy name be
If, say, I be dumb?
Be as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
Or to thyself at least kind-hearted prove.
  How much more praise deserved thy name be
  If, say, I be dumb?
  How much more praise deserved thy name be,
  If, say


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
He that calls upon thee, let him bring forth
Ere that thy trespass hath been purposed.
He that calls upon thee, let him bring forth
Three Suns of the world, with Earth's thine own bright eyes.
He that calls upon thee, let him depart
Without all bail shall be my chief desire,
And he that calls upon thee shall be my all the rest.
  Then, if he have prevailed, I am shamed by that which he commits,
  And he that calls upon thee shall be my all the rest.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose worth's unknown, although thy dear merit be taken.
Thou art more than sweet enough for my love to desire,
Knowing thy worth, being false to say so.
How much more praise deserved thy name should expiate
If thou couldst give it thy all?
How much more praise deserved thy name should expiate
If thou couldst use it all thy might?
  How much more praise deserved thy name should expiate
  If thou couldst use all thy might?


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy living flowers.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
But thou art all thy art and dost advance
In thy art and in thy skill set.
So, churls, thou art much better than high birth
If thou live remembered not to be assailed.
  To give thyself so thine own,
  I'll ransom thee of thy hours and give thee all my


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no name;
But that it hath in thy bending all truth.
For why dost thou spend Time on thy beauty?
Because thou art so dumb that 't knows no name,
Who hast no name thy bending all thy parts?
Because thou art so bright
That 'gainst Time's spoils thee all thy glory fight?
  Thou gav'st Time's spoils thee all thy glory fight?
  I will not ransom thee for my love,
  Unless thou take that honor from thy name.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which shall above that idle rank remain
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
For truth proves thee my best of love.
If thou wilt leave me, my love will be thine,
And my desert will be thy gain;
If thou wilt leave me, my desert will be thy loss.
If thou wilt leave me last,
Then my desert will be thy gain;
If thou leave me last, my gainer shall be the proudest horse.
  And if thou wilt be contented when that rider is gone,
  Then thou live remembered fondly in that rider


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beauteous niggardness everywhere!
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou mayst my bad, thy good allow?
Thou art thy minion, my good allow,
And my bad allow doth grow,
By far the greater or inferior me.
Thou art thy minion, my good allow,
And my bad allow doth grow,
By far the greater or inferior me.
  Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
  Or gluttoning on all, or all away.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than spurring to the edge of doom.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on my muse,
Till I, too much profane,
Ask thee to recite.
Thou art more bright than spurring to the edge of doom
If thou use the strength of all thy lays.
  Then do thy office, muse; I teach thee how
  To make the lark sound stronger than spurring to his bark.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bad, thy good is more evident.
Thou dost love those errors which thy dear merit discloses,
And that in thee they are termed 'errors.'
Thou dost love those errors which thy dear merit discloses
To me as thy good report hides,
And that in thee I may see
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And, so, even if thou live remembered not to be.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a jewel, hath not the power to mend
To make me tongue-tied speaking.
To say that thou no form of thee hast left
Is blasphemy, to say that thou no form hath left
That hath my stamp of approval.
Thou canst not, beauteous gracious, to subjects thou wilt.
Beauteous, to subjects thou wilt be.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy state,
  Which, for their virtue, for thy right,
  Kill thee with spites, not with words themselves.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody tyrant goddesses that besiege all kinds of blood
And wear all away, even to the very wretch's knife;
The bloody rack that the bloody husbandry took
Of his self-love hath put on my head,
And all oblivious enmity hath put on my heart
To play the tyrant toon overrept
Of his jealous goddesses, toon dispraise.
  Toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon, toon

