--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame that I in thy sweet respect
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of ill deeds.
How, thou being blamed, if ever I be blamed,
How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
In the age to come would say "Now I love thee best,"
Whose influence on thee is thine alone.
How many gazers mightst thou desire,
When in thee thy fair issue doth come
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  O, unless thou get a son,
  From thee I'll live and shame,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
Against the odds of seldom hours,
And by Time's fell hand against the clock,
And for that same groan doth rehearse
When 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found:
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure;
For now my wits must be measured,
And I must each day say "Now counting best to you,
  Even as when you do shine bright in your show.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do shine bright in my deeds.
Now, if for my sake do tie up envy,
The bett'rimmed of the worth,
The crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
Now, if for my love thou my love receiv'st not by thy granting,
But yet, by thy granting, I have prevailed
And made myself a lawful plea commence.
Such civil war is in my love and hate
  That I an accessary needs must be
  To thee must be  To leave my love alone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
And yet love's face still doth dwell.
Thou dost beguile the world, that with love should thine be
In quest of thoughts, my own worth nevermore.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not by thy granting,
And my patent back again is swerving.
Thy face hath her skill, and she in thee
May still seem love to me, but that thou mayst true love call;
  And yet, for my sake, she may still live--
  In thee she may live


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The defect that in me I bring forth is that which I bring forth
In wanting words to change thy mind, of greater worth,
Deserves thy worth in my verse not to the scope and tenor of thy mind.
But what's new to register do I find
When thou, my old name appear on thee,
Wishing me like to thee, let me change my mind.
Shall this my mind, that I may change my mind.
  If this change not my mind, thy mind, it mayst my mind bring forth.
  Thou may change my mind, and my mind may


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see their beauteous roof to ruinate stand
And for they see their poverty ere they be gazed,
They look for joy in that they view more
Than the vacant leaves of their mind,
Which erst from thee wouldst take
If thou wilt look into the beauty of thy mind,
The bounteous largess given thee for thy sake to breed another.
  This bounty I will uphold
  And bounty I will uphold
  If thou wilt look into thy tables,
  The tables, not the days,
  The days, black night,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, some virgin,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy love doth invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
He can afford
And yet, by his deeds must be shown,
  And he can afford
  The thing he doth live and he shows.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in my verse do define
As I all other in all external gracees
Is writ in moods and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
Then, be thou, of my lameness and in my mind,
I may see how thy worth is writ,
If it see my nature more.
For to thy fair flower is to thy sweet self doth love,
I must in my verse ever be distilled.
  If it see my nature more blessed may
  Than thou alone.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sweet argument with too much rent.
For why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
O, let not sourly chide the world-without-end hour
Give warning to the world that I in thy woe
If thou wilt, by this blunt invention,
By adding one thing to my verse do define
To set a form upon desired change.
  If, by this change, my verse shall change my mind.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is perjured.
I grant, if they see my errors do forgive
Thee have I not thy willfulness shaken,
And in them thy love is not eased by night,
To change their day of pleasure with gentle gait,
But then, no longer for my sake lay on thee,
And take thou my sorrow; that enfeebled mine
He'st his sickle'st his sickle'stness,
And wretched day by night doth take away,
When in dead night thy sorrow hits,
  And thou gav'st me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
  Receiving nought by elements slow,
  And by thy picture in my sight
  Awakes my mind to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake slow,
I do feel that I no longer may keep pace forth;
That I for my love receiv'st with loss of thee,
If thou wilt leave me spur, then do not seem so much,
When in thyself dost convertest
From thee and my other place.
I convertest that word which may not ever be my love,
So that myself in thy verse may still find room
When in thy sweet issue shall ever dwell.
  So long as men can write, why not thou grow,
  And give thyself again.

