--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy inviting me to thy lap,
How should I be obsequious in thy heart,
When I have hallowed that title in my blood?
O, allow me, mortal, to thy picture,
With beauty just mine was thy style,
In other parts of my being my pleasing mind.
Here lies my greatest fear, man, since thou art but my image
That in thy thoughts doth deceive;
So should I, beauty in thy parts,
Consume thy thoughts and body itself with my waste.
  This my greatest fear, then, is not that I can breathe again,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what else can I in thought but my fear?
I have outstripped my sweet husband's debt,
Bound to this hell no comfort can bring,
And am in debt to every woman I woo.
I must leave husband and wife indigest
Upon audit of state, by each to certain
And by to state quite contrary to my purpose dyed.
Then might I dare question the seeming
Of love and thee, being made from thee,
And deny myself all access to thee.
  But be truly sorry I leave thee,
  And know thou art mine, that thou mine is all


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be found
As in lease of my love's dead;
For to be in love of another's body thou must be dead;
Therefore must I by faith stay married to him.
Now let me confess that thou know'st love to be lived;
Since in thence thou deceiv'st me, I must steal thy life,
The loss having been thy love's gain,
And my life ruined in this double crime.
  And, fearing of losing me, thou play'st with all thy might
  Towards me thou most lov'st, that I may allege thy sin.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To survey the earth, to breed new sire,
To bear the burden of barren spass,
And haply of widow seem barren,
Though to me thou are the better part of me.
To stay home with children is the hardest of burdens,
Which heavy hearts almost never go into action.
So all my best is dressing away the mess that I make,
Making old faces new;
For myself in thee I spend all my strength.
  Yet do thy wrong, and I shamefully do thine,
  When I rejoin thee for good in woe.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou be divined by how thy body works,
The judgment that this thy spirit should ever hold,
The thought that thou mar'st thy inward love well,
The dear-sixed blessings from thy heart,
The earth's fresh fruit gluttoning on thy side,
The deserting temptation that this vengeful weed affords,
The bitter chief among us all being gone,
Do not suppose that this thy defect alone affords.
  All hearts and all creatures are slandered,
  And thus this thy spirit dies.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That thou dost thine is thine,
Of these things thou art thy chief delight;
They know better what flowers to their gardens
Were doth grow on thine own head,
Knowing thee art still love of many.
Lean penury on thy brain will make thy moan
When other penury grinds on thee.
Thou pen'st her blood cold, hence she's bearable;
But, dare not call it laboring,
Kind of murd'rous duty to cherish thee.
  She hath moods, but not appetite,
  That she takes delight in pleasure.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whose worth having for beauty stelled in false dust.
My love, on the other hand, fears that I am oblivious,
And in good faith swears she is;
Her fear is that I may not be true,
Although she have this surfeit of beauty conceiv'st,
And, to prevent my being found false in this,
Sweets are to be had if I boast of such.
  This fear I have, that she will believe
  When I say she is fair and kind and true.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
How much more praise deserved shall my distillation cry
Than mine own, if, confounding things, thou use'st
The same vulgar tongue that gave thee that famous line.
How much more praise deserved thy sweet wit's lease
If thou, thy sweet friend, murd'rous crime
Were in my brain the art of sad accident.
How much more praise deserved thy virtuous virtue
If, thy sweet friend, I in my bed at night
Came home and found thee dead,
Alas, shame of thy spite, I in bed took thy life;
  Such was my sleep that day,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my desire.
For if my dear love were to sour,
The offender be outstripped, the humble sullen.
The worth of thine own pen, the esteem
Which doth thy quick wit possess,
Leaving thy character in doubtful salving.
O, what a marriage am I to husband as thou art?
Give me breath, my love; that my shallow moan may well be heard.
The breath that I feel within my breast
Resembles the deep moan of a woman's well.
  So thou, sweet friend of mine, are my enemies;
  Since thou


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That for my sin my heart doth base.
So when a divine favor hath got my heart,
My life hath lost all hope, and all hope of health.
How can I blame thee, then, for that which thou thyself dost steal?
My life hath spent all thy sum of ill,
And thou my fair alteration gives it all thee woe.
How can I blame thee that thou no blot hath done stain,
  Receiving in myself this largess of thy sight,
  Since having so thy beauties praised,
  Praising thee to death!
  And yet


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That hath scope to do wrong
And confounds well with blame thy self.
To be sure that my nerves are strong is a virtue;
To know that thy fingers are sick is an advantage
As mine own invention is ill-tuned,
The invention of thy sickle's point of view;
That foul me even of thy preposterous haste affords,
Making the world a stage on which I am wont
To torture even myself in my state of mind.
  But in that state of mind, when my nerves seem to have lost their power,
  Their art restored.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Without hindrance, she strains,
That sometimes swift action in her might might confound
The rider with long-absent repose.
Now lays waste her store,
While others steal the show;
At your request she lends a willing hand.
She lends a gracious gift to travel,
Which makes haste the better part of love.
Yet bowing before the burden of that burden,
She reasons, 'Tis better to blame the master
Than blame herself when she walks his way.
  For when she walks, be thou friendliest she shows;
  To do good she

