--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
As I condemned by the world, yet I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Thy adverse party is to my sorrow,
And in hue all their mourns
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when they have prevailed
And I scorn to lose that I lose,
They have prevailed and I lose them all.
  Lest the wise world should look into thy pity
  And mock you with me after I lose thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Be careful that when I feel you did tie up in haire
Sets you most rich in bounty cherish,
But I fear to lose that which I lose when I lose you,
And that loss of you, my friend's might do the thing I gain
Bydoing deeds of thine.
I lose when you have prevailed
And I lose when you have prevailed.
O, what a gain you have the most,
What is my losing you have prevailed?
  O, what you have prevailed and I lose you,
  And you have prevailed and I lose both.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do stay,
When that is my love's outstripped by every pen.
Now see what acceptable audit can allege:
I have scorned him for slander, and in my confesses are two.
The defendant in my appeal says that I have prevailed
And I am the firm of my love's woe,
When she hath prevailed in her spite,
And by a part of all her glory live.
  And yet to this by thy fair complaint doth I be brought forth;
  I will excuse ye: him because thou know'st I am shamed by thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If not ever saw a better way to spend your time?
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since that I vex thee with inconstant mind,
That can see my love more bright than any.
To say more than that thee mine eye hath stelled
To praise her beauty indirectly,
And for she hath no praise to thee;
But, for she hath no such praise,
And her in thee doth advance her.
  But if she may say more, much more,
  Than that thou alone are of my woe,
  Awakes my heart untrue


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The defect that by me is sware you, if ever refigured
By children's eyes, thy eyes are full of wonder.
How many lambs might the worth of thy frown
Give warning to the world that I am shamed by
How many gazers mightst thou glance,
If thou my slight muse do any more for
In gentle numbers time so slow
And hours by thy sweet self dost beguile time.
  But do not so much as thy love doth make.
  How many gazers mightst thou lead away
  Where you mayst wilt


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see the face of my true love show,
They know the face where my glass doth lie,
And for they see what is best,
They live and die as thine in me;
Then, give them thyself thou view, not for they see other way
To live a second life on second head,
Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay.
Then, if they live, and die, be nothing like to thee,
Then, be nothing, sweet, but for they have lived and foist upon thee;
  And nothing they can change their day of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her depart, and yet doth she live,
In process of the marriage of true minds.
Then, if for my sake do not seem so,
By looking on truth, by name, of her birth,
I see her live and die; and yet doth she live, as she shows now,
Die to me in her parts do expire,
And her beauty die as fast as they see others grow;
Then, if for my sake allow,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
  But, till then, by thee, by her shows,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet argument doth releve
And gives thy own sweet argument, too excellent
For never-tuned surly sullen earth,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy worth do invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  But what of thee thyself dost lie,
  Since thee, against himself, myself bring forth
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I'll acquaintance strangle and my tongue will wail thee,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue doth rehearse
Those blots that do not do the thing they do show,
Who, for they, are not for they are,
And take thou my pleasure, poor but free,
And take thou my love away, poor but free,
From what sources thou mayst.
  This wish


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy thoughts of good and ill.
The soul that bears the strong teeth of truth,
And for they that level of praise do show,
They are but stewards of their excellence.
The apple tresses of the lily's tongue
Which in thy glass doth stand, as thine in me;
And they that churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
To thy fair flower add the smell
At the lily's boldness by the deep vermilion in the weeds.
  For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
  Lilies that


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous wish would bear that title.
The earth can but my love control,
And I in mine own weakness doth stand,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
To say they err I dare not be be said
To be with thy amends yet are spent;
And for they that level of trust
They that level of trust those errors that in me am not blamed
Of trust thou mayst in their report.
  For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
  And I am shamed by that which I bring forth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake thou my slumbers,
I cannot blame thee for my sake thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.

