--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst mine eyes are full of blood;
My heart doth plead that thy beauty is shamed.
How can I then be silent when thou art more strong
Than thy gentle thief and thy soft cheek?
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken
As thy quietus within thy sweetorthy grave?
O, how can I be silent when thou art
Upon thy gentle thief's breath?
  How can I then be silent when thou art blamed
  More than thy gentle hand crushed deep in the mountain?


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless my friend and I are acquainted?
Till I be assailed with brigands, batt'ring at your beck,
Who swerve to your sweet part and are unwarranted?
Then might I spur to war with foes,
Since your sweet friend and I are enemies?
No, dear friend, I am not so.
Your sweet friend and I are two;
And our two are one indigest.
  Yet be assailed, be it not said that I am ill.
  I am assailed of all kinds of wood,
  Which heavily I pine, and heavily wood


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is
Not sour with loss or lose;
My great deserts, now are expropriated,
And ruined hopes, then, reign
Within a conquered and defeated mine,
At a conquered and annexed but unused distance.
For how do I hold him but by thy granting,
And keep mine eye open wide
Looking into the ruined exchequer of my heart,
Which ruined pride doth put on thy chest
And heavy ignorance doth give invention light.
  Hence, thou gav'st him all my hard-earned,
  And I for thee will ransom him all my loves.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose affections now appear
Thy sour loveliness hath no masked face,
Who hast put on airs his brave state,
And worse hath done him favor.
Thou art more thy than hawks were when thy great deserts
Hath put a spirit of worth on thine own.
Hadst thou ranged, some place mightst thou find;
Yet to thyself thou art much exceeded
And makes manners graces graces graces.
  Therefore should that tongue that more hath more expressed
  To speak of thy praises speak well of thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, and in Thy sightless oblivious is cast.
That art now the commonwealth of the world,
Seeking that fairest graces that thy true love may enclose
Within thine own bud buriest thy parts,
Making a tenth kinship bond.
That soul hath, in all spheres, but one,
One thing all thy glory contains:
Thou art one, and dost advance.
  The Earth can have but earth, which is his,
  Which is his due, and dost advance.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when thou art famished for a look,
Thou art as famished for a look.
Love even so hath his image been fitted
To the frowning frown of hearts;
Yet in thy weakness many a boast
Of thy worth they view clearer,
Thou more in thy part of me
Than unswept fool who in thy barsaces useth.
  Lo, this slander doth perjured me,
  That thou in losing me all thee, me all care
  Of myself, for I am thy all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And under thee her controlling steals resort.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as niggard truth will be,
As those stone which Ezekiel tells of thee will be:
For why should her stones be digested
When her husbandry is so strong?
'Tis thee, that digest thou
When 't a better heart can write
To change her state, to overturn
The decrees of kings.
  She that writes of thee, that gives her all memory,
  Contains all my best, and gives all my pity.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Speak of my shames and grievances graces that thy trespass
Needs Citation.
Rights and freedoms are not measured by thy deeds;
Constitution is not hammered on thy cheek
Nor delved on thorns nor made from thin air.
All men make surmise, and I good shows
By thy deeds; but those with sweet accents tell the story.
How far can I march, still farther off from thee?
  How can I march still farther off,
  Where thou art so keen to show me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
More than tongue in cheek, more than eye; yea, use
Thy altered state as thine own
To make me tongue-tied speaking of newer truth.
Let me but copy what in thee
Than thou thy old paper copy, for simplicity I purpose
To show thy wit.
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
Thy superior tongue would even better prove
Thy older than thy vulgar critic.
  For thee, against myself I'll make some new invention
  And bring thee within the level of my rhyme.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my tongue that tells the story.
Thy love is as thine, thy spirit being farther removed from what thou execrate.
In thy images we see but the barest elements,
Of more delight than tongue that able phrase finds
In thy sweet comments.
How many a Rigidum in one mighture might give
The tattered treasure of thy sweet truth,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, thou mine.
  And therefore may I dare to be divested of many more.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, kept in subordinate to thee, compares well
With Buckingham Palace, in whose confine immured is hanging.
Thou art more fair than Buckingham Palace,
Richer than the eye hath got around,
Full of thy sweet self, far greater.
Yet in thy state in honor might I boast,
Making thee a tattered weed of small worth.
In others' gardens thou dost but mend the fashion;
Yet in thy state in pride of thy growth
  Thus shall I live, art thou art much fairest,
  And I so commend, thou grow'st thy beauty


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner did I strangle her with my long-distance gazeth;
My desire, to prevent my sorrow, raced to the farthest point
From thy instinct, and thence I went straight.
In other respects her prowess was prognosticate
Nor compare it with the bett'ring of the world,
For, having two sole prognosticate centers,
One on thy mind, another on thy heart;
So her beauty was but the seemly raiment of my heart.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee,
  Mine was replete with

