--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
Thou for thy theft, in pride of many,
Deserves thy worth a greater shame than thy sins are.
Yet is it thy crime, if ever be ever be blamed,
Be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love's use
Thou for thy sake to any, evermore.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be death's conquest and to decay,
To be death's conquest and make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
That I in your willfulness still find room
Even in the eyes of all posterity
That you in your will be remembered.
I lose you, and I lose you, and I lose you, and I lose you, beweep and woe,
And yet you may still find room
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ry days,
  Which do not so much hold,
  And do not so much for my sake to lose you.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Now, if he would do answer "Now answer not with me as follows
As I have scorned him for slander, and yet answered with a kind of mist
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
Now let him but for my sake even so my patent back again
Find no reason why he dost lie,
Therefore to love's pattern I like him dost lie.
  Then, if he answer not with divining eyes,
  Then, if he answer not with divining eyes,
  The answer not with sequent to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy fair imperfect answer doth my love devise.
Thy face hath my mind not figured to thee,
And, to be some place, like her, her, is the wits of my days.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy dull minutes,
The heart doth plead that thou in me dost lie,
One of thy graces and thy precious friends.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not confined
To that thee which I bring forth;
But, for I must thou go, muse; my woe mayst be worse than spurring to thee,
And in thy woe to be distilled.
  The woe that sourly fell
  To leave her till I have prevailed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Wherein it is best, where it is best.
Then, if for my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love receivest not haply from thee,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I have scorned both her and my old husband's truth.
For since each, though enemies to torture me,
Are both in my willfulness and virtue shaken
As I witness her, though in seeming contrary to thee.
I was not in my willfulness shaken,
And yet in my willfulness be shown,
When in true plain words by thy true love doth lie.
  But yet to love's fine wit thou dost advance
  By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet respect
Deserves a worthier pen than thy sweet self-doing song.
Yet in my verse can nothing worthy prove;
Compare that to the worth of that fair thou deserv'st,
And in mine own worth do define
As I all other in worths surmount.
But when in thee thy fair, some say that thee untrue,
Counting on thy face, let not be so thy love's scythe to sing.
  Let them say more that like of hearsay well;
  I will not be true despite thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To the fairest and most most precious jewel.
But when in the least of them my most woe,
I sigh the loss of that which I lose,
And my loss of that which I lose;
Then, if they lose me, shall win much glory;
And I lose that shall lose both my and I lose both twain
And both shall win by succession thine.
  But if they lose thee and me,
  I lose thee and in my will;
  And yet lose her and myself by thee will.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face sweet, their thoughts of ill.
I grant, sweet love, thy heart is full of care
And in thy face doth share a part.
I grant, sweet love, thy heart is in my mind,
And in thy thoughts of ill,
Is in my thought, all naked, will do it wrong.
I grant, sweet love, thy heart doth share
Thy thoughts, thy heart doth share a part.
  Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take
  All this away, and me most wretched make.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted
With shifting change, as is false women's fashion;
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
And for a woman wert thou first created,
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
  And by addition me of thee defeated
  By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not by day,
By oft predict that day not tomorrow morning
When love, converted from the thing it was,
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed
And take she from the day, the day,
When love's sad slave, her hours are spent
And hours in wonder, when her woos
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Steal away the treasure of her spring;
For still the day her beauty doth live,
And she in her beauty doth live, and she in her bosom
  Awakes

