--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles strange.
Thou that art now black beauty's black,
Hath put a frown on thine eye,
And all those beauties whereof now thy shade
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight.
Now thy black is allayed,
And thy lovely hue
Is better than high birth's black,
Which is better used than jewels or silver plagues.
  And if thou survive thee I'll sell thee ten of thine,
  And thine be thy sum of good.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that eye that looks into my soul
Points to the heart that my heart doth latch;
Points to my heart that my heart doth latch;
So, if my friend or I be dumb,
My grief lies onward, and my joy behind.
Thou that art now my greatest grief,
Three themes in one.
Wretched than to let any one dressing grow,
Three themes in one, which wondrous beauty doth deceive.
  Let me be obsequious in thy heart,
  And obsequious in thy heart thou mayst prove me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or wit, or all those, or more,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might, or thee, or me,
Do I envy them all, or add one,
And keep thy growth slow, dear my love,
To keep an adjunct to remember thee.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since that thy sweet semblance doth deceive,
  And that in telling of thine I may tell
  How far I to travel, or how hard I to steal.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since, spite of thee, I'll live in thy spite.
Thy glass will show thee how much clearer I am
Thy dial how much clearer thy mind is
When thou art told it must go;
My gold complexion, thy dial's shady stealth,
will give thee all my comfort.
Till I prove thee virtuous, and thereby be won
By false painting my defects;
By public kindness what thy gullibility hath done,
Thy dial shall be virtuous too,
For thou art thy sweet self too fair
To be tickled that way by all thy wrong.
  To be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
That, upon thy seeing, thou art assured shalt find
That there is no need to hide thy face;
Unless thou be stealthy, of course thou art not assailed;
And, if thou be gagged, be a gagged wife;
Beauteous niggard grace, blunt thou the lion's paws;
And, tender churl, tame the tiger's paws;
Beauteous niggard grace, blunt the lion's paws;
  Or both, of thy quick succession beauteous.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies underground,
That it hath no veil;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
  Then thou wert not blind, nor enemies to thee be
  Though foes to thee I never sighted,
  Unless thou wert truly blind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Before my sight she bore my name.
For how have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
In the distraction of this blenchesword?
O, to the most of praise, that tongue that more hath more expressed
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
If my love were not so bold, I scorn to change my mind;
But, fearing of time, that time presumes mine
And puts my love aside.
  Therefore, spite of you, I'll write of her pleasure
  And make old comments on her memory.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou mayst true gull my word,
And use it to my advantage?
Till I prove thee virtuous, and hang my praises
Thy merit, not wanting to be profaned,
On thy part yielding me of thee.
What acceptable audit can mine own self bring forth
If thou art so dumb that my steeled sense
Loses control of thy thought, controlling thy drop.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee, I send thee forth
  And do my worst to shame thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art much too fair
To use my name in common words.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the wide world, wide as the eye of heaven;
My body is the frame and the heart;
Our brains are husband to the heart,
And our tongues are the child of heaven.
Thou dost advance, not backward,
Increasing store with store;
Therefore, beauteous and feasting on thy spring,
  Push me to my content, contented only
  When necessary stops short.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth th' impression fill.
Th' impression might be better concealed
Than mine own heart's thought, but that mine eye doth view it
And says with thy will,
"This fair child of mine eye doth belong."
Till thy image be obsequious
And take thou my oblivion, poor soul;
Then believe me, thou art thy image!
  Love is a babe. Then thou thy image should give life to thine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, against thy will's making.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or all three,
Or any of these all, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, in one general commend.
Thou art as tyrannous, ever so, ever so,
As those whose beauties proudly wear their army;
For when thy state, sovereign, commits itself to thine own offense,
  Then thou suborned shalt be.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And April's proud hand, too wet for the wind,
Sets you straight in her rearward well.
If this be error, famine reign,
And April's proud hand murd'rous shame,
Then no war shall rage within her gentle bosom's bosom
Nor her proud sword shall cut short the life of a foe.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.

