--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy black garments do give light.
Thou art much fairest in thy art
And, if for my love thou art, I am much happier than thou art.
If for my love thou art, I engraft thee a fairest and more temperate heart
Than those painted gilded monuments built to disgrace.
Thou that art more temperate than those stone tombs which the stern wolf doth spend
To pry tender my parts and make me a slave.
  Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
  That, for thy love, myself engraft


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a will hold me prisoner,
As 'twixt a willing patient and his guest,
I will myself betray,
By notching with my will; my will be th' offender's delight.
Th' offender's delight is his greatest grief,
Since my will be th' adverse party's delight.
Since his pleasure hath but his adverse party's delight,
His delight hath not his adverse party's delight.
  Then he hath my consent, and his adverse party's delight
  When that consent hath not assented.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own bright eyes
Can feast on thy dear merit.
Now that thy fair glass has wit,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
And I swear it to myself alone;
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self dost deceive.
How much more praise deserved thy fair flower to give
Than thy sweet self that says in thee
How much more praise deserved thy sweet virtue.
  How much more praise deserved thy good appearance,
  And how much more praise deserved thy poor show.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than when my dear doting heart hath put a spirit of youth in everything.
The world well knows that beauty lies; yet doth she mock thee,
And says in thee she is false of me.
Speak of my lameness and I straight grow;
The earth can have but earth, which is his due;
My flowers, thy sweet self, are thine;
My lips, thy lips, are thine and nourishing
Of thy whole being.
  But why thy lips are so filled with thy bounty,
  The bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty chide.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and therefore thy glass will be well
Forgiven to thy glass will be thine own,
And her glass will be thine own when thou art old.
And if thou glass shalt hap to age,
Thou dost beguile thyself of children's eyes,
And old men's eyes shall profit thee of children's eyes.
  And if thou glass shall hap to age,
  Then thou art old and canst not be assailed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy heart;
They know that it hath in thy soul a part;
They know that it hath in thy soul a part,
And they know that it hath in my heart a part.
Thou art thy mother's glass, and her glass will show thee how thy lovely color
Shifts with heat and with cold th' outward from thy hand.
  But why thy mother's glass thou viewest,
  The Earth can breathe th' outward of thee;
  The better part of thee is thy mother's glass.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When truth proves more or less.
If, I fear, my love shall be termed a babe,
My love shall in these words seem youth,
Though they shall live in happier words than tongue,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee shall be.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet skill,
Making tongue-tied comments on thy praises.
  But thou art all tongues' art and dost invent
  To make tongue-tied comments on thy praises.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Made tongue-tied by authority, taught to thee
And me with authority dearer than tongue?
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my well know
Thy worth a greater.
Grant, if thou wilt call it folly, I'll vow debate;
Even so shalt I swear by thy true love,
Whose speech impediments mine ear well.
Thou art as tyrannous in knowledge as tongue,
And therefore mayst my love excuse my jollity?
  Wretched in thy speech, why tongue-tied muse want to sing
  Where thy sweet argument shall rehe


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in translating should not be so great,
Nor my poor name, which in thy cheek
Hath been profaned.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And keep invention in a noted weed;
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make the 'gainst myself a taker
Of all thy praises.
  Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
  Even to thy pure and most loving breast.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor lips that in thee are.
Thou art my savor, and my bad,
A thousand proud victories foiled, all errors proved.
Let me suffer, being at a loss,
Than thou art blamed of many, yet I alone shall be.
And do this with my most sorrow, knowing thy heart;
Thou art my all the world, and I must strive
To know thy deep-sunken bosom,
Although thy shallowest help will hold me up afloat
From thence all oblivious shame.
  Then, if ever that gentlest hand can hold me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a jewel hung in heaven,
Doth in my bosom's shopkeeper's pride groan,
And sings of thy sweet virtue.
The marigold at thy hand
Is poorly imitated after thee,
And gilded on thine own desert
Is poorly imitated after thee.
Thou canst not, sweet thief, disgrace me half so ill,
Since, outworn, I'll live in this poor rhyme,
While others like to thee will give thee leave.
  For thee I canst not be assailed,
  Since that, in thee I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband hath put an end to his loving play;
Now all alone stands, and the brave husband no longer doth hide;
Yet here stands the strength of his loving state,
Whose proud strength's abundance weakens his own bosom's wardrobe.
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
Which, kept unused, lives but in the rearward.
  Thus end days of unthrift in the world,
  And turns to beauty

