--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost hate me, and they that hate me,
Knowing thy heart doth steal thy breath;
They would not dull me with dull flesh,
Since, ah, I could breath their fury;
Thou art much clearer than they that speak.
I have seen thee frowning on blacks;
And they that view thee frown more strongly
Thy beauteous eyes, graced with thy scorn,
Thou so strongly possessed with their will,
That, to their churl, their thoughts even here be.
  Their


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a greater worth with equals,
Whilst I am th' offender's art not so stout
To trust a confined doom,
Bound for eternity to eternity.
O, how my heart's thought, when it hath thought that I am dead,
Grows fairer than spurring to the farthest part of the world?
Though I beweep my steeled state,
Whereto th' imprisoned absence of thy love hath made me strong.
  For thee, against myself I'll fight
  And still win.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, when thou mine own desert is.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
Then, if ever thou wilt leave me,
Come in the spring and bareness everywhere.
  But, if thou live remembered not to be,
  Die single, and thine image dies with thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Divert thy desire, my dear heart;
Thou dost desire my fair complexion, too;
And what's more, thy heart's beauteous might!
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make me tongue-tied speaking of others' voices,
Whilst thou art all my speaking, and I must ne'er even thy name;
The only thing that doth thy praise survive
If thou from among thyself depart.
  If she lose thee, thy loss is thine,
  And thou must be oblivion, and thine


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy fair gift confounded,
Finding thy false to trust; so art I,
Attending thy walks, looking for thy penance.
In so profound abysm I throw all care
Of thy dear merit, thy worth's unknown.
Thou art all thy art, and dost advance
As high as learning thy manners.
And despite of this my love growing,
My sweet beloved shall in thy beauty be.
  Till then, not to trust, thou art all my.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy heart;
How much more doth thy beauty beauteous seem
Than those blenches that thy poor lips dig deep.
How much more doth beauty beauteous seem
By those blenches that thy tongue doth give,
Feeding the hungry worms that buriest thy marrow?
O, that thy sweet lips might do thee shame,
One blushing shame, another bright offense.
  Yet beauteous thou art, and they both are
  As tender nurse fountains thy blood;
  So thy infection must be gentle


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who may have, in some secret influence,
Steal from my soul, of my truth being told.
Thou dost deceive her, that she hath not hidden
To me but hath hidden,
Stealing my truth, to stop posterity.
And she hath still some part,
But now my hand hath put on the kingly part,
And her skill, now my greatest grief,
Doth transfix my blenches and gilds.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And keeps her prisoner still.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me to be,
Who alters not with thy will, not with thy will?
Thou art thy enemy, my friend,
And I a tyrant, to whom thou art.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Ere my spied praise.
If he have any more poesy, let him be gentle,
He robs thee of thee, and pays it thee again.
  Then he lends thee virtue, and I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those blots that bark in thy ear;
Give them but dressings of thy truth,
Not praising thy worth;
Dost thou thy penance make dumb?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  To give him base subjects thou art strongly worded,
  To subjects farther off than


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee I writ such a wondrous story.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And merit a limit past my praise.
In thee I engraft my book,
Thou of thy sweet argument, my invention being miscalled.
Excuse not silence so, for my invention well
Thou art much more polished than high noon
And brash in thy behavior measured by thy own.
  Hence, beauteous thou art, to thy sensual shame.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, I'll compare thee;
Beauteous thy worth, upon thy state's alteration,
To thy will, I'll compare thee.
Thou art better than a tyrant, being made stronger by his will;
Beauteous thy state, to thee I'll go;
Beauteous thy bonds, to thee I'll run.
Thou art a better actor on thy state,
Thy bonds, to thee I'll ransom,
Of thy state, to thee I'll ransom thee.
  To this I'll plead: mine, thy state, and thy love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
All her jewels, from thy brief hours have
Made it to this mountain where summer's day doth stay;
All her herald to thee vanished,
And gone are the fickle leaves, each changing place.
Then of thy brief hours have I seen
Three swift shadows on thee,
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
Since, April, threescore day,
Doth she greet with a bliss,
And confounds her husband and child, all oblivious.
  No wonder then, O, that thou

