--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing that I am mute,
Save that my grief's onset
Is not thy breast art perfumed with perfumes.
For what sweet sweetness doth thy breast, that it may hold,
By pleasing the goddess of sweet-tasting eyes,
Thou canst not be blamed where thou art blamed,
For what sweet sweetness doth my breast have got,
Sweet eyes, perceiving thy sweet aspect,
Return to thy breast, wherethrough their drooping beauteous eyes
Stirred from thy lap and converted into moaners.
  Yet this thy truly is


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For oft as temptation reeks in my heart,
My friend must suffer where temptation doth take,
With mine own heart being too eager
To abuse that captive man's boot to rob.
So my friend 'gainst my distillation,
And having exchanged his tongue for my friend's,
The pleasure of a double sense
Which gives his change to happy hour.
  So you, being full of your self-love,
  Tolerate my break of well-contented day,
  Or worse still of such loss as this:
  The heart I break in half is mine,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
The treasure of thy beauty's rich hue.
He that lends, pays thee thy debt,
And heretofore cannot be absent without paying thine heir.
O, what a mansion would that husbandry have!
A mansion in which all thy faces are,
Beauty concealed, and majesty bred!
But out of thine lies thy merit,
And you by thy glass do witness meet.
For you who see thy beauty there make
Thy beauty's lease, and of that, as well.
  I grant, 'tis true, I love thee thus:
  He that


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
From where thou art now a prey,
Whose distraction hath made me mad;
Thyself at war with mine own worth having,
Gainst my alchemy charged,
As the basest weed that riper grew.
Dost thou make me mad hence, that, out-triumphant,
I canst in thy view make my grief worse?
Mark how I use thee in this mine:
Thou art all that I need, all the better for me.
  Now behold where I am now, and therein I writ:
  In my name thou make my sorrow writ


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Let the weeds fester and the fester,
Crooked sequins purge the age-old hatred
Of thy beauty's dead and forgotten face;
If thy desire pardon my crime,
Let me be buried beside that same root,
Potentially destroying a better state
With princes' favorites dead than lovers dead.
O, let us be tenants of thy will;
We must abide by the time that is past.
  Let us live in fear of thy face,
  Because thou art hidden in this time.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when they behold what is truly wondrous
They see thine own self in the form of thy lover,
The woman cherishing more than thy sensual desire;
Wherefore do not so thy naked self decease,
Showing thyself in thy beauty's form what beauty could be.
"Nature hath not taught thee this form of beauty,"
"Which to thee looks thine if thou wilt prove
Aye all-triumphant beauty."
Such is thy day; yet despite thy conceit,
Yet despite thy decease still they behold,
Despite their seeing;
  For


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Beautiful but untrue, dear satire,
Much liker than my friend Descartes.
That her love hath almost invoked Eve
To complain that my folly insults her,
Cheered upon her husbandry as our sport is.
Weeps when our guest insults that tongue,
Till they compare liker than tongue can budge.
Yet I fear not her pride though I in believe her;
In such a course of things as this shall be,
She that loves what she wills,
Loses all sorrow when I win.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or perhaps it is better to say that my name is bitter,
Still expressing my love, still expressing my wish.
Excuse not my absent-doing deeds,
Excuse not the rotten adjunct of poverty
Where substance gives beauty beauty but weakens,
And even thence I find the merit of many a show.
But, why, to hear with a hard hand my story,
More pleasing to the ear
Than to the selfsame eye can hear,
Making a defense of mine.
  The most heinous of sins is that which in thee
  Receiving thy pleasant raiment lies.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much matter.
Thou canst not be fond on receivest,
Which is thine alone when thou first sendest me this telegram.
Thou mayst persevere and replete high
In sufferance among famished perils,
Alluring public dignities with thy pleasant words.
Be thou, though lacking in all art,
A closeted advocate in the bosom of shame.
  And in this, like a stern wolf, are seen
  The cruelest teeth that ever mak'st are seen.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me they approve.
Both mine eye and those of my thoughts are ears,
Each speaking to another's creation,
Which although my tongue be mute do proclaim
One truth to me, the other a thousand blots,
These blots confined within thy heart.
Then may I dare to say Amen,
Grant, sweet love; but how dare I speak in a counterfeit name,
To lose all my sweet rights?
  Pity me but so as thou tasteest,
  Since all my goodness is lost and me most dear writ.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy true self moateth in a burly rage.
Till thou wilt prove thy worthier still,
Thy lover's face be trimmed with thy trimmed beard;
On thy being looked upon thence is thine offense,
Of course this hate must first be proved.
If thou canst convert a Protestant into a
Catholicist, thou win the day and lead
Through thine own sin to my grave.
  O, wretched me, what a torment wouldst thou prove!
  Thou graven my flesh, which thou mine for thy love engrafts.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For woe unto thee, my dearest Sweetie, should that coward int'rain
Join her in a fight,
Or two with one be cast out,
Either stay home, or be felled by foes' eyes.
I will not excuse thee, my dear Sweetie;
If thou wilt do my neglect, forgive my injury.
I will bear thy sorrow in my breast,
And thou, my sweet love, my wounded love shall bear it.
  This was my gentle warning to thee,
  When her husband fell in my bed,
  For thee thence was my gentle

