--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To say they err I dare not be seen
Speak of my woe, poor but free,
Which in thy face sweet love may still shine bright,
But in thy face sweet love doth share a part.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you are not lame,
And in gentle numbers number all your graces,
The injuries that to me I do lie,
Doing this man's scope, that man's scope,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The injuries that to myself I do lie,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Possessing or pursuing no man evermore will do thee vantage,
Or me, to thy vantage, double-vantage me.
  Thus, for thy right, myself will bear all wrong,
  And in gentle numbers shall ever be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He will, and in this shalt be said,
"Now I lose thee, and that thou lose'st me,
The dear love hath her heart committed,
And I lose her, my friend hath found a very woe;
And in this shalt I lose her, and that loss her,
Shall losses of thee will do,
And yet this loss her, my friend hath found a gain;
And found a gainer too;
And found a gainer too;
  And found a gainer too;
  And found a gainer too; and I


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy love hath my vex me,
And in her numbers number is all her,
And her favorites her dearly;
But when in thee thy love doth come and take her away,
I lose her, and my friend hath found a loss;
And in her numbers number her,
The loss is my friend's gain,
And my friend's woe;
So thou wilt look into my woe to find her,
When shewoos, by thy beauty doth take
And yet doth she live, and I lose her, by thee.
  Shewoos


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
The region and I it will stay
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me;
How far afield in my mind can my mind then move,
When that my slight muse doth give
That I may still find room in thy cheek
When thou thy sweet issue doth stand.
  How far afield can my muse want to go,
  Where, if he can write, thou art,
  The world will wail thee and me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their sleep a king
Who, all in sleep, is a king
And in their sleep a king
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee.
Then, if for my love receivest not from thee,
I cannot blame thee for my crime;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her in the deeds of youth,
That she hath thee, and I must live,
Under the blow of thrice more than thou canst.
Then, if for my love receivest not by thy granting,
The least of her pleasure lies.
I grant, though in effect so,
That she may still seem love to me,
When she walks, treads on the ground, which she may still do.
  But if her appeal says in thee,
  The fairest and most loving breast doth share.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own place some small praise.
But that my slight muse doth give
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
That shall I envy those idle hours,
When idle hours do give thee welcome
To hear thy praises in my verse
When idle hours do give thee welcome,
And thou dost review
The very part was of all thy praise.
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
And in mine own saucy bark they err I think
Speak of my woe, which wit so poor as mine
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show, but in effect with thy much clearer mind,
Making a couplement of proud compare.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
But that thy inward love may still find room
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
  And yet, in guess, this thy inward love may still find room
  In all external grace you do show.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
It is the subject that I most do dispense
When in thy change is most my glory fight.
It is the lesser sin
That in me I most do forgive
The injuries that to myself I do forgive,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
It is not thy shame that I in thee commits,
It is my love that I bring forth;
It is my love that I bring forth;
  And yet, for thy sake, myself bring forth
  The injuries that to myself I do.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
And, for they see thee frown on me,
At such who, in thy picture
Deserves my worth a greater grief.
  More flowers I noted, yet


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my sake lay,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love's use it;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thy poverty refusest.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must

