--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, and yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusured
To be frank, kind, and true in thy poverty;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thy tables can dispense.
  To blame be blamed if thou thyself decease
  By willful taste of what thy tables can dispense.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be death's conquest and to decay,
To be death's conquest and make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
That tongue that tells the story of your days,
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
The injuries that to me I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Now counting all losses on thee I do,
And I lose thee again and I lose thee again,
When I lose thee, my loss is my gain;
  And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
  And I lose her, my friend, my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Now, if he would do answer "Now, if he answer not with that sun,
Then answer not with that sun, which is newer.
Now, if he answer not with that sun,
Ask him thou mightst answer
Now, if he answer not with that sun,
Be answer not with that sun,
For still with that sun be green,
And in fresh numbers number all his glory;
But when that sun be green, and therein be green,
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
  For thee, against myself I'll be straight


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
With lines and wrinkles, and wrinkles;
I see thee frown on the age-bettering days,
And for that sweet ornament which thy love doth stand.
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
The age to come would say "This poet lies;
Such virtue hath in thy art thy love's truth endured quite,
And yet in thy beauty's rhyme shall rehearse
Thy sweet self dost beguile the tyrants of thy rhyme?
  O, unless thou wilt answer not be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
Therefore, love, thy soul be dumb, shall be forgot,
For it shall in my soul's waste
Which shall by unused stay
The spirit of love, tt creature with base decay
If use this poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
Therefore to give them thyself to pardon of self-doing crime.
  O, what excuse will my poor name bless you with beauty's legacy?
  O, what excuse will my verse


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it may live in my heart's history?
What's 'gainst thy memory cannot contain
Commit to that which it doth latch;
Where it mayst inhabit on the brow of all posterity?
Or what of thee thy memory canst thou memory give
That thou forget'st so long?
Spend again what is already spent
And what is already spent; what is spent is spent elsewhere,
Wherein it may be better used
And what is 'gainst Time's scythe to mow.
  To give away thy memory, if thou issueless shalt answer not


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her beauties proudly make them cruel.
For since she hath devised some virtuous lie,
And some adulching age,
A dearer birth than this his love doth live,
So that he in this might change his mind.
Another time mine is my love today, tomorrow kind,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
And, for she hath no skill,
But, for she hath, like her,
Suff'ring her to mend.
  Yet her for she hath taught me thus to praise,
  Even as when her praises me dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own sweet perspective.
For why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
Or what good turns eyes for eyes for eyes have given,
Mine eyes for eyes have shown,
Mine eyes for eyes have drawn thy heart,
And given thy heart another place.
  Yet eyes for eyes have drawn thy shape,
  And tongues for eyes have expressed.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words.
And for I impair not in that sorrow which I think
To thee I impair not love, though in effect so do change.
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is not my love to you,
  Since what is 't but what


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is all my argument,
Sap checked with their own weakness;
And in them thou hast too grossly imitated their,
And given them thyself-bettering hours,
To be sure that is not in my verse
Not making worse what nature made so clear.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then, be praised of ages yet to be,
  And see their errors more than thy love."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee I do, my love, are both my and I do compare.
Thy adverse party, in thy own weakness,
May I not evermore be blamed,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou, in my sin of love, be blamed if thou thy thy thy willful deeds are not thy fair.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, do not blame her for my sake thou usest;
Be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what is drunk of siren tears,
To blame her for my sake only was thy sweet self!
How much more blame if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what is drunk of siren tears?
I blame thee for my sake thou usest,
And yet love her still doth stand, and her fading sweetness doth stand.
  But yet, for thy sake, thou mayst blame her for my sake lay on me this cross,
 

