--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All round the clock, and look on me with jealous
Exceeded amazement.
O, 'tis true, mine eye loves more than mine eye loves me;
Mine eye hath put on black the beauty of me,
Knowing that beauty hath no edge in me.
So thy heart is my jealousy,
And mine eye hath put on black the beauty of me,
Which in my rage surfeit puts a damper on my delight.
  In others' eyes I draw, and they see--
  Drugs doth thy true heart deceive,
  Drugs in my love make me lose control


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give my friend the strength to fight back
Against thrusts of jealousy,
Or to make me throw stones at the eye of scorn,
Or worse, curse words that I can hear
From the lips of well-prepared ladies.
So, for example, when you look upon my neck
When from highmost pitch black clouds besiege my sight,
Or look upon your hair when from the sea meet,
Or look upon my eye when from the burning canker doth jump.
  Then I have no shame, no taint,
  Compared with other marigolders that die young


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
From thee this most barren plain.
I must, now forfeit the pleasure of thy seeing,
And by so doing forfeit that very same sight,
Till other fleeting joy ensconce me
In batt'ring newfound love with thy audit.
O, this very time, when thou hast done thy deed,
Save that thou hast the privilege of seeing,
That is thy pleasure, 'tis well I hope,
For it hath almost all my benefit that doth belong.
  Then, be thou ever mine, and mine is thy wealth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
A kind of thriftless love that can afford
That poor addition where it belongs.
Thou art the increase of a vanished desert,
Which when thou takes possession thereof doth decay.
In that time thee unused grows,
And to a free gift thou wilt gain a bide,
Which gift becomes thy self again,
When free grace doth dispense, even to the Earth,
Where bounteousness doth this make a prize.
  This thus is the ending of the story:
  Thy sweet love gave birth to this place,
  And this for thy sake was all


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou gav'st thyself within the knowledge of time,
Which time doth corrupt, making thee a dial-stone
And minutes tell thee thy self's time.
Time doth steal thy sweet self thou gav'st,
Whilst thou thy minion dost steal thee sweet self's time,
To pay it thee sometime exchanged.
Be thou thy self thy adversary;
My love is thy love but sweet self,
Which, so thy adversary calls, may be thy sweetness.
  Then trust thy true self thou receiv'st thy sweet will,
  Which patience hath no


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And bestow that beauty on those that do see.
O, that's thine, that mine eyes are blind,
To say they are still seeing what thou wilt see,
When in thy sweet self thou dost in heart deceive,
Or else, that mine eye hath knowledge of thy sight,
To grace grace this praise by thy tongue.
Thou best of wrongs, Adonis, which in thy brain hath power
To devise many a motley to do thee shame;
  These are thy lambs and thy lambs are victors.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, rich in riches,
And, conceited of high birth, dignified with office;
Of dignified fame and famous wit hung in disgrace,
Her art admired best in shame and envy;
And her jewels are admired far more in praise
Than in fashion's consummation.
But that she lives, my love perceiveth,
And that she loves but for my love,
Is a most perjured invention,
A motley in front of a woe,
Cured of distraction by distraction's delight.
  Hence, to prevent my love's spite,
  My verse in numbers


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Like a lamb possessed by the wolf's desire,
Made tame and free by the wolf's desire,
Rescued tame by the wild boar's neck,
Lose by anger with every neigh;
Gored with thine eye but with mine own,
Deluded to pardon my vices but with mine own doing;
Suff'ring my bones to death with worms,
Stirred with poison by heat and died upon me;
And for shame and perversity show me not
Where thou art as thy sweet self doth show.
  This I say: "'Gainst


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such skill,
Not to the effect desired.
If I were fond on words, and those words expressing my mood
Were of more use than tongue-tied praise,
They would be scandalized more than tongue-tied praise.
Hearing you graciously approve of my deeds,
Hearing you thinkly and with gentleness impart good deeds,
Creating a virtue by your deeds,
Spending on what is most dear.
  Such are the plagues of this world;
  They take root where thou roost;
  Their injurious tongue will thrive where thou grow'st.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And all their petty abuses find scope in me.
Whilst I in thee hast too much given unto mine eye,
And in thee mine own self a vial of ill will,
Spending all his largess on me.
So then thou mayst be my rose,
Whilst in me thou hast drawn thine own poison.
  But if from thence thou wilt come to my table,
  Me well I know not, for thou mine eye is sick.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So that by thy hate my found fault may appear.
Against this thy argument canst not thine eye
Thy own due mayst appear,
But by thy revolt it mayst appear again.
Be thou enemy of my love, and I with thee
Are foes in love's sight,
But that thy revolt is proved
Thy own worth thy countenance affords.
Let us be friends, be thou thy advocate
In thy deeds, and mine is thy truth.
  For thy truth lies where thy deeds show thee,
  Where on thy fair lover's fairness lie'st.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
"O, poor niggard! where are your vices supposed
To go, where are their foibles so eagerly made,
Excusing all frailties which vilest quality
In virtue of frailties bred in me?
"No, let me be contented when a son
Comes into the house, to see what's new,
And new arising takes place.
"He who takes delight in ill-doing,
Cannot blame his luck, 'gainst himself much delight.
  Let him fear not his sour delight
  Where proud gusts sourly from me bring

