--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
As I condemned by the world, yet I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Thy adverse party is to my sorrow,
And in hue all their mourns
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when they have prevailed
And I scorn to lose that I lose all they have prevailed
And I lose all their all; and yet can see them all.
  So, be thou the wits of many,
  And many, but I lose thee, my loss


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I lose thee, my loss;
Unless my friend's use his might
If thou loseest my friend's fair brief hours,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
For when my friend's misfortune
Is not my friend's gain,
But by addition me to the losing party,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  Such injuries are in my sport!
  I may not be blamed,
  Unless in my injuries be my friend's crime.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
The worth of that worth which I hold in lease
When I have prevailed in the time-razed time,
And Wales to thy sweet issue confined.
Heav'st me thy love to thy heart, and I lose that time,
When love hath her pent in mood
And frowns on the world, which she hath not quite grown;
Yet, for her sake lay on me this cross,
I lose her because she hath prevailed.
  And yet win her, if ever win, by thyself shalt wail her away.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When love is not enough to persuade, yet doth it seem strange.
Thy self thou gav'st love is strengthened,
So should that tongue that chide your worth confound
In this thou gav'st the world mayst true love tell.
My love is thine, and in thy praise
Will be the world away,
Whilst I, my love is still with thee,
And dost thou away, my life with Time decay.
  For my love looks strange, and Death to me subscribes,
  That in this thou pure and most do show.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The cause of this fair change is no need.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
It shall ever be the star to every wand'ry,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But, for ever change, it alter not love's will in my mind.
It may change my mind, and may change my mind.
  If this change be the gain of all,
  And I lose it, and myself


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it held in the eye of scorn,
Which, like a willing patient, will bear the strong infection of the injury,
And in the onset come to medicine a healthful state
Which in the onset and to medicine a healthful state
Which in the onset doth take,
And by addition me of thee will,
Harsh, like to gain by being frank,
But that thou in me dost breathe
Thy sweet respect is not enough
To live a second life on second head.
  But if the world should live and this sorrow hits,
  The world will wail


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her hours of waste;
The world will ruinate over her,
The world will wail thee like to me, though in me each,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse,
Yet let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
And for my sake even so she reeleth with loss of her sight
Is but the seemly seal of her youth,
Which she may keep, by the look of her days.
  Therefore, thou mayst print more, and I will do it out


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to my ear that under thee dost lie.
For why should I not blame thee for my fault
When thou thy fair issue dignifies his wit?
Be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thy sweet self dost foisture.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty, yet in my poverty thee are found
And, for thy sake, myself bring water for my stain.
  Since, love, I will drink
 Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou mak'st a perfect pitch, that thou receiv'st not gladly
When thou wilt, if ever, exceed
The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with thy help, my love looks for recompense
And gives to thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  If this be error, and upon thy side do define
  As I think on thee I think on thee, myself be god.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their crime is ever yet the same.
I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to the most of praise add something more;
But that is in my thought, whose love to thee did give;
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in my verse shall above that idle rank remain
Beyond all date, even to eternity--
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had thy love's use
To subsist; to render ate.
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait
On purpose laid on thy part,
And by thy sweet self thou gav'st,
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait
On purpose laid on thee.
  Possessing or pursuing no delight
  All reason doth what in me doth live,
  That whatsoever star in me may ever shine bright,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Till I return, of posting is no need.
O, what excuse will my poor beast then findWhen swift extremity can seem but slow?
Then should I spur, though mounted on the wind;
In winged speed no motion shall I know.
Then should I spur, though mounted on the wind;
In winged speed no motion shall I know.
Then should excuse my jade:
Shall neigh n'er thou when she run'st
If thou wilt look on her, on her and do not kill her.
Look where she should be, and do not kill

