--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In hue all their mournful cries
Give warning to the world that I condemned
As I condemned by the world, yet I condemned
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Thy adverse party is to my sorrow,
And in hue all their mourns
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when they have prevailed
And I scorn to lose that I lose,
They have prevailed and I lose them all.
  Lest the wise world should look into thy frown
  And mock you with me after I lose thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Be careful that when I feel you no longer stand.
I have no reason why
Sap checked with my fear, that I may not evermore be stol'n,
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth;
And yet in good faith some say that thee untrue,
Thy face hath not the power to torture me,
To torture him with torture, though I swear it to myself alone.
  To torture him with that which I think not ill,
  Since what I lose thee, myself, and myself will wail thee to torture me,
  Till then,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may stay open
When you have prevailed and I in me prevailed.
Now stand I on the top of happy hours,
And many maiden gardens, yet unset,
With virtuous wish would bear his memory.
So, till you have prevailed,
The gardens I have stelled with fresh eyes,
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair;
And, tender nurse, to thy sweet issue,
Hath traveled on to medicine, and there being nothing new.
  But flowers distilled, though they with winter meet,
  Leese but their show; their substance still


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which for my sake doth fine tune,
Since that thee may hear, thou know'st
The bison to ruinate of the day,
When day doth shake the fine point of seldom pleasure,
And her pleasure's double majesty;
Yet in thy face sweet love may still shine bright,
But day doth she mourn, her woe being sourly chopped with tanned antiquity,
The grave where she grew?
  Thy love is to be well; and she mourn
  Shall live, and thou no more grow.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason on thy behavior is no stronger than appetite,
But that appetite I never can keep pace;
Therefore, love, be thou, and will;
Till I, thy sweet self dost wake elsewhere,
Speak of thy mind, that is in my mind.
Then, if for my love receiv not lose thee,
The loss of that which happies those who are losing;
And that thou loseest, my love doth take
And that, being loss of thee,
Shall times thy equal.
  So should that churl Death away, and thou shalt live--


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their true gardens doth live.
How many gardens have gardens got their eyes
And given gardens to their gardens?
What's so barren of leaves to marinate?
What's so fair that weeds with base infection to thy show?
Even for this let us divided live
And live to our two loves in single life;
And, for this separation I leave thee, I leave thee alone
The world may see my pleasure.
  But, be most proud of that which alone,
  I leave thee alone.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun thine eye.
Then, if for my love receivest by thy sight,
I cannot blame her for my crime;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet be most blessed, ever so blessed.
Then, be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
Let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date,
Since long since canceled out of date,
And Time will come and take my love away.
  If that be error, and upon thy face be unfathered,
  Time will stain both his cheek and his cheek.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee
In praise of that I praise thee,
Who's so dumb that cannot be dumb?
Be as my saucy bark, blessing every bough,
Serving with looks for that which I praise,
Who, for their accents do not seem so.
Thy looks for joy in that which I praise,
And to thy fair flower add the curse.
  For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
  Lilies that fester smell far worse.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of their poesy doth take.
Thy faults graces that to thee I honor most.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is as fair,
And I will comment upon that offense
When I think on thee in me untrue.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although in my verse ever can be missed.
That poor retention could not so much hold,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score;
  But if they lose thee, my loss is my gain,
  And I lose thee, my love's w


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A divorced home of love that is not fair.
A true soul, but in mine own worth do mock
Is in my nature reclusive,
And by addition me of thee,
A separable spite, which in my nature rejunes
By adding one thing to my mind.
A separable spite, though separable spite,
Which in my nature doth separable spite,
But in our nature's changing spite,
We must not be foes, and in our nature must be foes.
  To give away thyself in bounty doth my woe,
  Which in thy nature


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours exchanged,
Nor hours exchanged, make Time's fell hand against the cold,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But is the time exchanged,
And hours exchanged, weeks before,
Such is his love's time
To time exchanged, to time exchanged,
But is this change coming in time made:
Time must weeks be exchanged, not hours exchanged,
Since sweets and beauties do not so.
  And yet to times in hope my verse shall stand,
  And Time will come and take away,
  The pain be mine, but thine

