--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost love offenders now converted
From the thing they had before;
They had not before exchanged vows;
Yet this I change my mind,
Thy looks, thy complexion more red,
Divert to thy needs.
How can I then be elder than thou art?
O, tender child of mine, how can I be elder than thou art?
  Presume not on thy looks, that thy looks may be deceiving.
  Thy looks must not be tombed with beauty's tomb,
  But be tombed with


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a greater worth with trust?
Is it enough that your friend hath left behind
To play the tyrants to my heart's and eye?
O, no. Sweet flattery! But that my friend hath fled
From behind bars, and hath fled
From thence with me, all alone.
That he hath fled from thence with me
As with him from behind bars hath fled
From thence with me, all alone.
  For thee, against myself I'll fight
  And prove thee virtuous, for thou art all my love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not missed.
Now he is, my dear dearest friend,
And I swear it to myself alone;
The bonds of trust he hath,
And I swear it to thee alone.
So that he may live in thy heart
While others in thy thoughts are dead,
And still thine when others in thy thoughts are alive.
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
Both he and I must live
Although others' offenses are not loved of more;
  And him thou must be virtuous, for thou art thy virtue


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath got thee to cross-section;
Yet do not so. I will be blunt, blunt thou my jollity;
My steeled sense, thy own imprisoned pride, will bestow it;
Thy adverse party hath got thee to approve
Thy adverse party hath got thee to approve
The spur cannot provoke him on
Which to his burning rage shall expiate.
In others' works thou dost provoke,
Though in thy fiery rage thou mayst prove me wrong.
  So be it, my steeled sense; in others' works thou dost provoke.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore thy pass is deemed a misdemeanor.
Beauteous thy glass will show thee where thou art
Resembling rich in knowledge, though not so great
As in hue your sweet self resemble;
For how do I know thy sweet face
When waves make toggling waves in the main,
Or thy dear merit a limit past my praise?
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which, for thy sweet life, will live twice--in it and in thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies, and that it is replete with tribes;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The painful warrior famoused for worth,
Others but stewards of his excellence,
Others but stewards of his wealth,
And by and by by by being crowned,
He carved more for beauty than for his skill,
And he carved more for thine own.
  For thee, all men are creations,
  And men make things in thee that thou mayst grow.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath skill enough wit to sing.
But, ah, no, I believe her to be true
And to trust her as a prize
Of thine own bright eyes mayst thou taste.
Even so, though thy love receiveth not love
Within thine own deep-sunken eyes,
My dear love is strengthened, though strengthened not by thy love being perceived;
So she cures well, though strengthened not by thy love being despised.
  She lives virtuous, though virtuous still be--
  And thus virtue cures well, though strengthened not by thy love being despised.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My name be buried where thy memory cannot lie;
My body be unfathered, for my spirit is thine.
Thou art buried where thy memory cannot be found;
My spirit is strong, and so is thy tongue.
And that tongue that to thy sweet humor doth rehearse,
Feeds on the riper riper's tongue,
And stops short his speech with quick note.
  Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
  Even to thy pure and most loving breast.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than tongue.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on my raiment
To make my rhyme better?
Till I prove thee right,
By adding something new to my verse,
Than niggard truth will willingly impart.
  For well thou know'st to my purpose nothing novel,
  Save that my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my verse in thee is as their proud ornament.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my praise inferiority a limit past my praise.
In thee, inferiority leads men to temptation,
And fools to truth and to thy tables.
In thee, surmise is my invention dead,
Made more by thy continual haste
To thee and me, to whom thou art.
  Since then thou art all me, to thee I send this written embassage
  To witness duty, not to show my wit.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Not sour, sour of thyself distorting.
Thou dost love the world, unbless some mother;
That world is her due, and her due only is thee.
For what mother's child thou dost beguile,
Or what father's child thou dost beguile,
Which child thou dost confound?
  To be so tickled they would change their state,
  And confound him there, by accusing thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody husband hath put a spirit of youth in his force,
Which heavy objects hath put a spirit of youth in his control.
Yet this spirit of youth hath put a spirit of youth in my heart,
Which heavy objects hath put a spirit of youth in my cheek.
Now with the loss of a father and his proud horse,
Now with his loss of a mother and his proud wife,
Now with his loss of a mother and his proud wife,
Now with his loss of a father and his proud wife,
  And now with these tears hath my love lost,
  And now with

