--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles strange.
Thou that art now black beauty's black,
Hath put a frown on thine eye,
And all those beauties whereof now thy shade
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight.
Now thy black is allayed,
And thy lovely hue
Is better than high birth's black,
Which is better used than jewels or silver plagues.
  And if thou survive thee I'll sell thee ten of thine,
  And thine be thy sum of good.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that eye that looks into my soul
Points to the heart that my heart doth latch;
Points to my heart that my heart doth latch;
So, if my friend or I be dumb,
My grief lies onward, and my joy behind.
Thou that art now my grief,
Grieved at that which thou hast done;
All losses are restored and sorrows end.
  But thence my friend or I should rather be:
  To thee I owe all thy gentle kindness.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
For what benefit can mine own desert do find
When others' leases are allayed?
'Tis thee, myself, that hath the strength of all thy parts;
My desert is not conquest, nor is it theft;
It is a free will, sovereign,
Which is never self-fixed, no alteration.
He that doth theft from me,
Beggared of thy will, to repair repair his trim,
And needy of all thy parts come.
  Then what can mine own desert do bring,
  Which for myself bring forth what is best,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which, moving me to thee, shall be my distraction?
Thou art more strong than that which on thy humor doth grow?
For well thou know'st my dear doting heart
Thou art thy minion, and her pleasure shall be thy chief.
Our mutual love is strengthened,
By thy granting, by thee being strong.
To say that she hath gone untainted for a woman wert thou art
A minion to the very strong, to thee and to me.
  She hath, but in thee her power,
  All men's pride, and thou alone is the clear.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou issueless shalt hap to my possessing,
My soul check thee and shalt hap to prove
Thy effect is thine own,
For what can mine own spirit give thee but sweetness,
Feeding thy hungry bosoms with self-substantial fuel?
Till thou promise my assent thou art renewed,
And chide thy glass and thy poor repair
To make waves with thy waves; make waves with thy dear bosoms grow.
  But if thou issueless shalt hap to thy part,
  Then thy great gift thou must hap to prove me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art bright, in them perceiving it.
That due of thee which the blind do see,
They must each day surmount
As fast as light is to the ground,
For to thy sensual proof doth belong
Thou art thy foe.
So thou be good, 'tis said, and they surmount
As fast as light shall see thee to north or west;
For 'gainst themselves thy gentle shade
And keep them aloft in thine own desert.
  Then thou wert truly blind, but they know
  Where thou art, thou dost in the


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Without all acquaintance of mine, dear my love hath heretofore not been.
But when my love hath wit,
My love lends not weak edge, being strong in my love's power.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is as fair
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air.
Beauteous niggard grace, that in thy heart
Thy self thou gav'st thy light in thy flame.
  To this I witness call the fools of my age,
  Which thou gav'st truth to th


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My name be buried where thy memory lives?
Save that my spirit may still seem strong,
Though altered new;
Thou art thy mother's flower, and her rose is thine.
Both thy sweet and beautiful faces
Are on my mind, and my tongue may still sing;
But, for their part, speaking of thee,
Thou of thy mother's tongue should give them new life.
  And keep thy scythe open wide,
  As the tiger that fathoms in thy wing.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more sharp than spurring a wretch's horse.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than when those blenches gave birth to you.
And do this with me as with those old nine,
Since all alike are blenches now,
And being frank, I'll say more
Than those blenches that niggardly tongue doth say.
  Therefore, churls, I'll add that which thou d


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor soul that in thee doth lie.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore thou dost invent
Three or four; but when they are outstripped by all,
Then thou mine eye doth first appear.
  To give them from me thou hast the strength of a former sight.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the time,
And though it be outstripped by every pen,
Reserve it for my love, not for thy reasons.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since that my state, dear mistress over heart,
Cannot make me bow, knowing thy heart's might;
Be as thy presence is, knowing thy heart's might;
And, to thy part, knowing thy heart's edge,
Till my beauteous hand deface my poor soul.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husband, that murd'rous rage
Which on thy instinctive instinctive instinctive perfect still doth pluck,
From the wood, which thy instinctive husband saith was,
To 'cide this woman thy due, and gives all his might
To pluck the brave instinctive rank of thy husbandry.
'Tis not enough that, having two or three,
Three or more in one, to make one swift,
Which swift motion must be made when two or more meet.
  But here's the joy: my husbandry was fast built,
  And

