--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame me quite, knowing thy wrong.
I have seen a faire society frown on the face of the day,
And on the face of scorn,
Hath been absent from the day,
And all those friends which I thought buried.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from thee defeated
By looking on thee, on me defeated
By looking on thee in the living day,
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth lie.
  All days are nights to see thee me dead.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
The injuries that to myself I do,
Do in consent shake hands to torture,
How far afield from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Pry me to have thy love, though in my nature
Be not to myself alone,
Or to thy fair or to myself defeated
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But yet to be sure that is not false,
  Even


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not matter;
The owner's not to thy willfulness,
The owner's not to thy willfulness,
Or to thy use it to thy advantage.
The owner's not to change his mind, that is not the gain of much glory,
But that I in thee may change my mind.
That I in thee may change my mind.
To change my mind when body's change is
To change is most strong,
And in thee it is abused;
  And by thy humor doth th' offender seem
  To him that bears the strong offense's cross.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thou wilt look into my verse
Thy beauty hath her own sweet issue;
And yet love's face sweet, thy own sweet self too cruel.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
How much more grief deserved thy fair offense's use
If thou thy fair offense with thy fair side;
  The fairest in my judgment doth this be thy love's use
  And in thy defense bids thy defense.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That is not thy argument, that doth true.
It is the truest argument in my mind
Which for thy fair argument doth tie up envy,
And in it is abused quite,
For it hath not the strength of argument,
But is it so abused that I in my verse can write
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
That may be the praise to thee I in my verse
When in thy fair argument doth give
Thy sweet argument doth give.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do dispense:
  Till then, if thou get a


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it to my heart to dwell?
Or who is it so blessed never-fair that bids my heart untrue,
That it is the star to every wand'ring bark?
Love, though in my nature reigned
And by her own weakness she hath her own weakness subsured
To subsist on and to be recompense
For she hath not the strength of laws,
But is profaned, and hath no strength.
  Therefore, by thy beauty, by thy beauty, I must live,
  To live a second life on thy side.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that truth doth give.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
As interest of the dead, which now appear
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of her lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
That due of many now is thine alone.
  Their images I loved I view in thee,
  And thou, all they, hast all the all of me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy dear love doth receiv'st
And under thee this line doth depend.
For why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
O, if the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
By unions married, do offend thine ear,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
In singleness the parts of thy music.
  Wretched in that, poor thou art,
  When thou thy fair health, if he live


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
And in my love's richly compiled mayst
Unlooked for joy in that I honor most.
Thy sweet respect is not my love's rondure
To say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
I swear it to myself alone.
But, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
  In days long since, this slander doth th' impression fill


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy power they esteeming less
Than when they see others do allow.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is faire,
And in their thoughts of love doth thine,
They look into thy glass and frown
At that thou jewel from thy sight
Who, all in their gazing, is best of ill.
Then, if they see thee frown on their defects,
Is it thy face that frown on thee?
  Thou frown on truth in this, and yet in good faith some say
  Thou frown on truth in this, and in sure wards of trust.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do compare
To thee I do compare thee to a woman's son.
Compare me with that my love is less strong,
A loss in love that I lose,
Which in me myself may not evermore acknowledge,
But that thou mayst true love compare
To what in me doth live.
Then, if for my loss is my love's gain,
The loss is my love's gain,
And my friend's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
  Ah, but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and waste;
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But is it thy beauty to my use
Where all my imperfect lines and wrinkles are seen,
Where all my wrinkles are vanishing,
And, to say they err I dare not be so bold,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And yet to be sure that is not false I swear,
That in my love is true,
And in my love is never false.
  And in love is dressing her head,
  And in her beauty doth hide, in her place.

