--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy looks with me strangely.
I have seen thee frown on black night,
Beggared of blood by thy bareness;
Thou that art less red than white,
Drawn after my looks, less barren of wrinkles,
Than sable curls all hues of sable hair.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy beauty graced be.
  For thou art better than sire and child and happy mother
  If thy beauty were thy skill, and thou art so.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Neither my grief nor thy disgrace
Give physic to mine own grief;
Yet if that grief give physic to thee,
Thou of thyself thy friend and I'll ransom him.
Thou of thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self I'll ransom him.
  Receiving him by force, I'll ransom him,
  And he will ransom me all ill deeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
Thou dost beguile me, that he who doth steal thy will,
Beggared of thy will, of thyself thy spoil.
Beggared of thy will, of mine own sweet well being make.
And so he lends me but thy own,
And that his spoil gives him all thy bounty.
Then how I feel when that mine is thine,
Either by thy will, or him alone, or me alone,
  Since him all thy bounty must befalls.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
And my dear doting heart doth share that injury.
Thou art blamed if thou break my will,
Not let my will be shaken, though shaken more than thou art.
Be it not said that I can blame thee for my woe,
Although thou art blamed if thou break my will;
If thou break my will, my shame shall be my gain,
  And my joy shall be my sorrow.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thus assailed, and I am assailed everywhere
With counterfeit money, every tongue, every tongue, every eye,
And by all the tenants to thy heart;
And that my audit hath not stopped my scythe
From moving, and my lamb is now king.
Thou art blamed not for thy scythe,
Gored not for thy lameness but for thy mind,
And given to time must go by thy will,
  Since saucy change is no love of thy sight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies within the heart of heart
Of every wand'ring bark, every doublet,
Gilding it to thine own deep-sunken eyes.
For if that tongue that tells the story of thy days
Were false art left the tongue of hearts,
Thy looks would be a satire to flatterer be.
Thou that tongue that more hath more expressed
Than those whose tongues more expressed
Than more hath expressed.
  How like Eve's apple doth thy sweet virtue grow,
  If thy sweet virtue speak ill of me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Making her tongue-tied speaking of truth.
But that her love hath, as I believe,
A mortal fear, proves more short than a mortal blow
To tie knots than any cloak hath hid her from sight.
That her love hath, like Eve, grown
Since first I saw her alive, and,
Like Eve, she hath found no defense
But sad separations of happies.
  And so of thee, my love is as of death
  To those whose love lives th' age of thine.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For tongue, tame to subject, hath got thee to shame.
Thou art too tongue-tied, to thy sensual injury.
Even so, if thy gross virtue beweep my not thy blest verse,
Beauteous thy poesy, tame to subject, hath got thee to shame.
Beauteous, indeed, I tell thee I am;
And, true to thee, I swear it;
And, not for thy sensual fault but for the bane
Of thy bad report.
  To give a false impression of good faith,
  I swear it


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And keep thy dear merit high,
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times happier.
Thou art more beloved than those old nine,
Ten times happier than those present,
Than think they would invent new words;
And tongues that speak well of thee tend to make worse accents.
  Then keep thy worth in my rhyme,
  Since all alike speak well of thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is my love as well as thy true.
Thy love is better than high birth to mine eye,
For high birth to mine eye doth deceive,
And high birth to thy true love deceive.
Thy love is fairest in knowledge and fairest in hue,
And my great birth is better than high birth to mine eye.
Therefore thou gav'st my birth beauteous,
To give full growth to thy creation.
  This thou gav'st to my love, to whom I am gav'st,
  All losses are restored and sorrows


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A state in which love doth live,
That sin by thy state's spoils me more abundantly.
Thou that art now the state wherein I abide,
Crowning thy trespass, ruining thy peace?
Beauteous blessings, thou art. Since doth thy state,
My state, inferior far to theirs,
On thy revolt doth belong.
  To give away thy gift thou art.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Another time, though quicker than thou art,
Thou dost take
All my thunder, lightning, and cold winds.
And yet this time removed was summer's time,
The barren tender of thy summer's lease,
Too late, for thou art assured
Of thine own bright feature.
So thou hast her, and I am astonished
At the rud'st, the strong, and swift,
Whose quickness, swiftness, and speed,
  Combined with her, thou hast her all.

