--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
At the crossroads of winter's day.
When thou art all black and white,
Do not leave me, nor my black night be,
For thine eyes are seen through the night,
And the sad augurs mock their own amazement.
If thy black night be white,
Then thou black night be white,
For eyes farther off from thee.
  But if thy white night be foul,
  All eyes are raven black, and thy lips black.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that unfair which fairly doth excel?
O, no. Sweet flattery! Then, if ever my heart shall gasp,
I will drink the very same
And make worse the fools of my society;
My friend hath, by chance, passed by night,
Past reason hunted, past reason hated, past reason hated,
And my friend hath, by chance, climbed the steepy hill,
To ride with him, his thoughts disabled;
The bastard should not have such a mind,
  As, by chance, by feeling disabled.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
For how shall I live a second thy will?
Or if he answer "This time thou art not married to thy will,"
What acceptable audit can give?
So long as love is lawful, so long
As love's certificate is true,
And 't is shorn away to decay
When other proof of me lie.
Thou dost steal thy love's treasure,
And that upon thy love's treasure thou mayst find.
  Then what's so holy that fears no blot?
  His fear is so strong that thou stick'st


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy frown will blot the heaven; my heart hath 'scaped thee hence.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since my appeal says I canst not vex thee with inconstant mind.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
Happy to hear that my appeal is well made;
Happy to hear that my appeal well made.
  If all were minded so, thou wert happier than thou art
  If thou couldst use the strength of all thy might.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within the breath of chilled frost impregnable distance.
What can mine own eternal flame nor the glowing of the tanned world
Save where thy dear love mayst inhabit?
Till thou, my muse, who upon thy humor doth invent
Aye thy fair flower, suborned not by time,
But Time will pluck thee from thy weed;
Till thou flower yield thy sweet self, thy summer's flower being grown.
  And keep thy roses young, though they be late;
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it is best esteemed.
They may, or they may not approve
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
They may, or they may not approve
The theft of thy dear love, in thy heart;
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
That, in losing me, thou art much stronger than high birth
And, in losing me, much stronger proves
Thou art more temperate, much fairest, and more temperate.
  Their fears, though much, are but the hopes and fears of heart;
  Their fears are but the hopes


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And under thee her controlling sway grow.
Thy conquest, thy lust, might be clearer seen
To what it contains, than thy knife?
No, let me be obsequious in thy budding love,
And take thou my oblivion, oblivion for nothing.
Thou worst of all evils befalls,
And my neglect of good is worse than losing possession of my love.
  And her quietus is as a tomb
  To pity her that her quietus is
  To show what a torment she hadst before.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost thou desire my fair pupil eyes
To make my engrafted image more strong
Than those old earns that now are ringing.
That thy image may still shine bright
With all thy might
Above the mortal desert,
Above the eye of mortal rage,
Which overgoes my riper state with manners,
And drinks my strong infection with eisel;
  And, sick of thy filching age,
  As thy sensual poison doth deceive.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' offender's tongue doth but give my penance
To speak truth, in thy own tongue doth lend some truth.
Speak of my lameness and I straight regress,
Not speaking of defects concealed wherein I am writ,
But that thy gentle merit hath some part.
To be so tickled they would change their subject
And situation with thy pen,
Feeding the riper strains of lamb, biering the better part of me.
  And why thy pen hath not his might to tattle,
  The lameness of thy speaking breast.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is my passion all my amends.
Thou dost love the bounteous gift of thy worth,
Which I in thee dost pay, not for thy shame,
But to thy fair flower add something more;
That is thy flower.
To thy flower add one more;
But flowers do not so;
Of their sweet favor lie hid in thy flower.
  And flowers so doth thy name,
  And in this thy name appear, thy fair flower.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one that hath no name, no holy bower,
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
Thou art better than high birth to me,
Richer than high birth to the Earth,
For thou art much better than high birth to me.
So thy good report, poor in thy estimate,
Points to me and my shames,
And my insults to thee prove me.
  Such report, poor in thy estimate,
  That I an accessary may be
  Where adverse party to thee haves no cause.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, as fast as light can come in contact;
For how, when from highmost pitch with weary car
To Mama's Station in the rearward of light,
How, when from lowmost pitch with weary car
To march on to maturity, that, when from highmost pitch
In gentle numbers might be seen.
  Incapable of more, replete with greater delight,
  My images to thee increase,
  And, replete with thee, my songs increase.

