--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy looks with me strangely.
I have seen thee frown on black night,
Beggared of blood by thy complexion dull,
Thy lips were full of wrinkles, and I in thy bosom's shop
Made tongue-tied comments on thy sport.
Thou that art now my black,
Loving offenders that do not look so;
Thou that art now my praise,
And my body, being pierced,
Crawls to the shop where thou art.
  Receiving a lawful plea,
  Me neither for thy looks, nor thy words for heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can hold his stick,
Nor can Hutchison hold his crossbow,
Pointing to his side with my exchequer?
Is it so, though my heart be dumb?
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And make worms th' executor thy sweet self,
Making worms th' executor's nest.
  Hutchison well knows what with his gust is greeing,
  And knows that sweet thief's delight
  To be the first casualty.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
He that walks with me, upon my plea commence,
His low lip hath no force to hold his swift foot;
He that walks with me, upon my plea commence,
He that doth willfully forsake me for a gain,
And I, upon seeing him with eyes hath no cause;
He that walks with me, upon my plea commence,
And he that walks with me destroys my silence,
And me and leads me to his side.
  His low lip hath no strength to hold his swift foot;
  His low lip hath no edge to lose.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which vexes me even more than thou art
Bound to break a twofold truth:
The first my thought, the other my desire,
To know thy adder's art.
Till I with frost from thence
Be frosted by thy hand, and thine own pale complexion
Shalluders be; why dost thou then frost my brow
And wear thy fair imperfect tresses,
Till I stain thy lusty lines even there
By thy bending all my praises on thee.
  So be it, friend; I am thy foe.
  I will acquaintance any woman wert thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou issueless shalt hap to trust
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Thy pyramids built to thee are nothing novel, nothing strange.
They are but dressings of a former sight,
Which now appear but dressings of a former sight.
They are but dressings of a former sight,
Which now appear but things concealed wherein they grew.
They are but dressings of a former sight,
Which now appear but things concealed wherein they grew.
  Their effect with respect is thine,
  And their outward form is thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in thee that art so.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and, more blessed than that,
Thou dost advance
In this huge stage, wherein 'tis
Thy sweet self thy sweet self dost deceive.
Self thou gav'st, then, are you so bright
That, out in the cold, on the cold night
At the hand of heaven, thy sweet self doth rehearse,
  As thy master puts on his sickle.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath no spirit of truth to redeem.
I grant thou wert not false in thy heart
Thou art true, and therefore dost deceive,
My love is as fair, though not so bright
As those painted counterfeit signs of fair beauties.
If thou wert truly deceived,
My love was fairest in thy heart
And fairest in thy heart's creation.
If thou wert truly deceived,
My life would be fairest in thy heart and be fairest in thy art.
  How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
  If thy sweet virtue


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what's new, that thou mayst call it old,
Creep in thy bud thy mind's fresh invention?
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
And all things hidden in thee lie.
They did this, and found within thee
Those holy antique tables,
Which beauty taught to thee
Was but the raiment of thy mind,
Which beauty taught to thee this thy good.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy mind,
  Which, taught to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' offender's tongue, when used improperly,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
Richer tongues than our appetites are
Can make our appetites more strong, more strong,
Than those blots that do with quicker growth chide
At the hand that to thy sweet self doth use.
The quicker thy appetite is, the better we know
Than when thy penury doth rehearse.
  And that knowledge gives thee strength, and me well know
  Since all tongues are haply of that truth.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou mine eye that doth thine own.
Thou dost love the bounteous largess given thee;
And, churl, mine eye is my all my glory,
And, churl, my heart is thine own.
For to thy fair flower I call thine,
And thy sweet virtue in that flower doth lie.
If that flower with thy sweet self doth appear,
Thy beauty and thy bounteousness in that.
  And, churl, thy name is thine, and my verse in thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, when it hath my consent,
Dulling my fine point of pride, bending all my loving parts.
For why dost thou then make me swerve,
Till I prove thee virtuous, though thou art so deceived
By thy willful change?
Be thou the tenth apple, ten times happier than thou art
Or ten of thine own ripe fruit;
For why dost thou use that to make me swerve?
  Thy sweet virtue, though thou art all my glory,
  Shall in all worth live and ever live.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For where, when, she runs,
Where, alack, she keeps her husbandry strong,
She keeps thee to a fastidious watch,
For her husbandry no pace can halt,
Nor Time's injurious hand can make defense.
But thou, to thy part, that keep thee in thy wakened hate
Might I not haply say "Now I'll run, and chide thee woe,"
When I was certain thou couldst not hap to go,
Since, say, thou art so fond will be the ground
On which to ruinate grows.


