--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles strange.
Thou dost love my bad, and my good allow,
Evening my worst, to triumph;
If that my rose looks too fair,
My frown lines and wrinkles strange.
If thy rose looks fairer wept thou art,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles fairer wept be.
If thy blushing be fairer lodged,
Thou dost love my poor name, and I must thank thee
  Unless thou take that honor from thine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that sweet thief still may take
My quiet sorrows breath from my moan;
If that thief too, let my sorrows be
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
For then my moan would not have stopped th' offense.
For, having suffered for thy crime,
My breast is no stronger than thy moan;
If that thief too, let my griefs be
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
For that shall win much glory.
  But if that thief be not removed,
  My grief shall be mine, and he shall live twice--
  To steal thee all


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May Time disgrace, be it ill or well.
Thy sweet self thou deserv'st, to thee I'll keep,
Since what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
O, now thy good self thou deserv'st,
Be it not said
Excuse not silence so, for fear of time's tyranny
To thee I'll halt,
Stealing thy treasure from me.
  Then, if need, pardon me but this:
  I will live in this poor rhyme,
  And thou my rhyme will stand
  Where thou art forced to break a


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy glass will show thee how far I to run;
Thou art more strong than the canker's flower?
Beauteous gardens, thou art more strong
Than the lark at break of day arising from thy breath?
Till I grow tired of that which thou teachest I grow;
Then, churls, thy glass will show
What trouble thy mind canst not mend,
For bending all truth in thy bending sickle's field.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  They can speak but poorly of thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy dearest and only caretaker,
And therefore thy lease is deemed injury.
Beauteous thou art, therefore shalt not be slander;
Beauteous thou art, therefore shalt be
Abandoned of thyself thou art,
And to be assailed shall be thy chief desire.
Beauteous thou art, therefore shalt bebeaten to death
By means of force, and to be condemned shall be
Thy use is not to be used but to be condemned.
  For thee, against myself thou art,
  To be assailed of thyself


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy heart,
Which, moving in thy heart's motion, is much greater.
Thou art more bright than that which thy glass shows,
Or eyes better suited to thine own bright eyes.
How, when moving in thy heart's middle age,
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
If, moving in thy heart's middle age,
Thou of thyself thy sweet self grow'st.
  How, when thou art gone, how much more praise deserved thy fading name?


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath but the strength of truth to say
"This fair child of mine hath scanted all the truth,
And given it to my lover's wing."
The farther I move, the clearer my wit
The clearer my nerves am I blushing;
The farther I move, the clearer my grief.
I grant, sweet love, thy true love is better than
If thou wilt prove me deceiving,
By willful skill, not by false painting.
  If thou wilt be false to me, my love is fairest
  And fairest in thy art.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee wink wink before my sight?
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblivion, poor but free,
From thy gentle minion thy control,
Which shall suffer me most wretched prove
Thy unfathered treasure whence thou mayst come and part;
Till I prove thee virtuous, and thy oblivion be
  Continued even to the level of praise.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And old nine times thy worth increase.
Ten times thy worth increase
Than ten times his own.
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
To wit, ten times more in worth
Than siren song.
  And old rhyme hath taught me thus to sing,
  Since all tongues are mute when tongues speak.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that fears the worst of wrongs.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
The grave where buried love doth live,
With all the world outworn, all the badges of my deceased state,
And all those badges that buried love doth hold,
And all those for buried love doth willfully lie.
In thee I witness call the fools of thy time,
Those who, all tenants to the grave,
Die to themselves and to the world are mute.
  Their voices should be heard, but thine were not so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, having contracted thy worth, gives thee all too short a run.
Compare thy worth with that which thy foe doth allege,
And though thy worth be termed a misdemeanor,
Beauteous thy brav'ry shall blunter be
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  How many carriages mightst thou lead away
  If thou wouldst use the


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No need, honey; my love is soon to be borne;
Then my love's swift extremity is put beside
The dull substance of my love's bark,
Which heavily limits his bending motion.
Then, if he thrive and I be grieved,
I am to be death; and, spite of him, I am to be praised
Not by the world, but by the dear repose
Which by controlling his grow with ease.
  Therefore, love, beauteous niggard,
  When others would give life and bring a tomb.

