--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou behold'st the rack
On thy body's neck that hath strayed from thy mind.
Such was my morn, and thou, much of my flesh,
Drawn my every hue, as Thine own eyes would have done.
Yet seeing thy worth, and thou art at the top
Of All-Mild envy, why chide me so,
Desiring thy sweet rose, whose happy odor
Delights to please thy wakened appetite.
  For thy sweet self thou lov'st, and I have seen
  But shames thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what else can I complain but of thee?
I must leave thee, be thou my all the world,
So that thine jealousy and thy jealousy's stain
Have no home, no dear love to thine,
And thence I am confined, wretched without thee,
Dark as winter's brow is,
And maiden odor everywhere.
So thou hast my pen, unused to lie,
And, to make my moan more pleasing,
Take thy affections of love and hate offenders,
And, like children possessed, with thee prove.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes view
And mine own vision doth show what wealth is of worth.
Now I must take mine eye, for I am married
And by that I view others' wealth;
And it doth my love much enjoy entertain,
Increasing mine eye's esteem even farther
Than mine own seeing.
Yet what a happy home that husbandry
Is made of, my love losing all respect of me,
Doth seem, in other words, sinful.
  Yet for this I boast of thy hours,
  And say thus: "That despite of thee I was worthy of many."


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Excusing me that I have to contend
Against thee all alone.
For to contend thou cannot trifle with me
When I am wont to make answer,
More than worthy victors boast,
So shalt I be found
Within the broad scope of thine envy;
To make my side seem bare I send my horse,
And bettered that I am not taken.
That is my duty, and to bear that duty I lead.
  But since thou chide me for wanting thee,
  Make no defense against myself here.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou mak'st a hasty judgment; why dost thou wait till I come
Before thou thy frame of mind,
Before my being able to speak thy truth,
Knowing thy moan and thy moan's content?
Thou art in my nature but as a clock,
Knowing thy moan and thy moan's content,
Knowing how thy moan doth commence,
Knowing that thou art me although thou art mine.
  Since thy moan and thy moan's content my sight,
  In my nature to thy advantage,
  Thou do inherit this unfair privilege.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And rightly believe that beauty doth lie,
As, for example, in the sun's eye hath his sun made,
Or on the earth's ear buds some bower.
No, love, thou hast never made such a creation.
Thou art the invention harbored
In many a wondrous store, where the proud call
Of all-eating and all-mighty creation doth lie.
Yet this thought is folly,
Which alters not with thy sweet change,
  That on thy change we all find.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she hath all her dearest spirit;
That she hath souls but shallowly therein,
That she hath souls still afloat when the heart
Feeds her new contents in a sluttish state.
Nay, if she were true, why would I not believe her,
Speaking of myself alone?
Her tongue, contracted from thee, hath shorn the state
To subjects far off, where thou art as acquaintance
As she from thee.
  But if she be false, what excuse can I find
  From thee for my inconstant stay?
  She tells the story of my hours


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Injurious distance befits thy beauty's hide;
Injurious dates befits thy wit's right;
To leave an unprovident widow thy grave;
That fellatio for thy sake o'erlooks on
And kills his character with a sort of rage.
So then I am with thee, unbless mine,
Injurious distance, though not with thine eye.
  For thy love made me a very bad husband;
  And mine own true love, though false reproach,
  Kill me sooner than I am wounded.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much my mind.
Be thou the gracious that thou issueest,
An unthrift in the sea of miles unseen,
Shall judgment impair, when thou sendest thine own.
Look whom thou dost send, mine own or thy foe's,
And they are thy friends, mine own being,
And to thee as thine own truly are.
Mark what thou afflict affords, mine own or thy foe;
Show me thy obsequies, mine own being being,
And I straight will show thee thy love, mine own being.
  Therefore send not thine but


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which is most heinous in my judgment.
Since thou art mine own, I straight commend thy poor state;
And I commend those that do in thee
Whilst I commend those that do in me approve.
That's all mine, and that's all my glory.
If some riot break out in my state,
My sorrows should be my praise,
And those that break out in me prove
Vaunt on thee, though I swear not.
  Then may I wish that peace among tribes should remain
  In this common strife among men.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That through loving things thou dost bring more light,
To love offenders much thou know'st.
O, but with thy love when my love hath been proved,
O, but with mine own love being proved,
Against myself a rebuked look
On thy unfair parts, on thy unfair parts praising.
Ah, but not for thy sake did I chide thy look;
Against myself this saw was my desire;
Against myself this proved my love;
Against myself this proved my love's woe.
  Ah, but for thy love these proved many a bloody shame.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Let us, thrice the hundredth time, be watchful of thy bed,
And, for our pleasure, double our leisure;
Unless, perhaps, thou be virtuous,
Doubting thy defects in virtuous couple.
Thou thy mother's womb is a very gross place,
And thou hast a mother's skill,
Which she so skillfully abuses.
Yet that thy growth takes place
In the course of a million twain shallst not kill,
Nor sorrow in thee shall be the grief.
  Kill, thou wilt be dead; be whole, and truly be wit's

