--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath not figured to my heart;
My heart is thine, and they, like widowed wombs,
Do not question my sensual pleasure,
But rather make them sufferance;
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
And, to his sensual pleasure, be it amputated
Thy adverse party is thy advocate's injury.
  The amputation is to be 'gainst the bloody knife,
  Since thy argument proves thee virtuous.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those that give thee all my might?
Till I be a tyrant, though thou art thy chief desire,
Beggared of thy will, of mine own desert, be most sorry.
Th' expense of thy heart, of mine desert being paid;
My friend hath all my lawful reasons why he should desire
To do thee desert, be of thyself so wary
As to be forced to change his mind.
  If he will do thee repent, be of thyself thy wailing state,
  And me twice rebelled shall be my crime.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes are famished for
Above a mortal pitch.
Thou dost beguile me, now I am
Beyond mortal pitch, and therefore forfeit is
Notarished, as is false in this,
Which shall be most evident when I am not
Hung in the rearward of thralled miles.
Yet this my most false confess
To trust no man well of trust.
He that bears me, bears that man's will,
And bears that man's cross, to cross that threshold.
  Therefore, when thou art all the better part of me,
  Mine eyes are famished for


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy pyramids built to me will be thy store.
Thou art more than fair, though not so bright
As those whose uneared bosoms are fitted
To the Earth's graces reckon.
Till I disgrace thee with my scythe and crooked knife
And steal thy treasure; so shall I taste
Thy fine fine imperfection, thy fine inward part,
Making thy shame seem stronger than thy outward shame.
  Incapable of more, replete with blame,
  I'll live in thy pyramids built to thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For how do I know that thou art blind?
Thou art thy foe, my friend,
And, if that acquaintance betrayes thee,
The world can say I am shamed
By that acquaintance's blazon,
Whose worth's unknown, whose confounds me more.
I grant thou art my friend, and that thou art
Within my possessing, not impairing me.
If that acquaintance deserv'st thou art,
The world can say I am shamed by that acquaintance,
And I can answer with a laugh, 'Tis so, and doth he boast.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown on my defects,
They scorn to change their minds; but thy frown lightens
And my change, my blind faith in thee.
Thou art the stronger, gentlest, and more temperate
Than those churls that thy bare lips can speak;
For that tongue that more hath more expressed.
Thou that art now the world, and the counterfeit
Within thine own bud buriest thy truth.
  And that tongue that farther than the eye hath shown
  To make the world's tongue dier sing.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath astronomy--
But that she hath not skill enough thy dear love to sing.
I grant thou wert not acquainted
With divining power, that her gentle verse
May Time disgrace, blushing of truth, make seem
To orphans and unfathered fruit;
She lived in manners quite contrary to thy sight.
Her beauty might be better termed a beggar's raiment
Than that which thy sweet love doth steal,
And bounteous gift in thy love doth deceive.
  Thus do I pine and surfeit when thou wert not acquainted.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I commend thy worth to those who are
Whilst I commend thee for my love.
Thou art more than fair, though more barren
Than thy rude, though narrower.
For why dost thou use
So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?
Because thou art so dumb
That thy worth's unknown, my invention
Made more by thy granting.
And why dost thou steal thee all my treasure?
  Treasure thou thyself thou mightst be contented
  Unless thou take that away, which me am contented  Unless thou take that away.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more sharp than spurring?
Thou art much too fair, and my dull vice admiring.
Beauteous as thou art, my dull penury
Finding a spirit of thine own, more temperate than spurring?
Thou art thy foe, and I am thine.
Beauteous as thou art, my dull acquaintance,
Finding thy sweet favor concealed in thine own.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy days,
  Which shall be most heinous when thou art all grieved.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee doth dwell.
Thou dost love my poorly imitated tongue,
Whose invention hath not shaken my faith,
Pointing to thy fair flower how thy praises should grow.
To this my verse I witness call thine own
And to this my verse in confidence answer answer
Thine own dumb presagers thy praises disperse.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
  To him I witness call thine own true story,
  And him that calls thee to his verse astonished.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A vengeful tongue doth publish everywhere.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those bellicose tongues
Which flatter in their smokeless night,
Applying their poorly compiled truth to my praise.
If thou wilt prove me an even graven,
By allying thy sins with compare,
Then what could death do if thou couldst depart,
Leaving posterity nothing but sweetness?
  Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody canker blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Kissing at the bases of thorns,
Gilding pale streams with streams of smoke;
The beauteous canker lives in the roses;
The hairs on the neck of fawn
Were shorn away by the lusty night,
And the long, white, bristly beard of mouthed tresses;
But now the white, nor the bristly beard of mouthed cows,
Sets you most proud of all.
  And so

