--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing that I grow old,
Reserve for myself my worth, but lose their respect
When seeing that I do hush the very night
And take advantage of the fleeting glance of that fading night;
For to my loss their esteem gives thine eye
The beauty that mine own eye doth seek,
Where beauty doth still adore his heir.
  All men fair and well are false beauties,
  Which beauty doth but steal from thy heart,
  Where poverty doth now steal from thy heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For once my sweet heart in thy breast cries amen
To thy loving name?
O, 'gainst my verse no account!
Alas, 'gainst my verse, my friend,
Thy acceptable moan shall sing;
Against this unfair break shall I be struck,
By thee thy sweet argument!
No matter how hard I grind,
I can bear it no matter how hard I grind;
So that for thy bad table manners praise
I may be stol'n, that I may be deemed groveling
When by thy sweet self alone I am steeled.
  But if


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The blessed hope of thee.
For now thou art willing, servant of mine eye,
The lark that leads witless eyes onward;
Reserve what thou most deserv'st gives thee a home.
Although now thy love hath writ to me,
Reserve what thou most receiv'st thou thyself most;
Save thou thyself, my hungry eye,
Those eyes that feeding on thee sway.
  For best thou art made for this use,
  And that better for thee belongs
  Than tongue that calls thee to thy seat.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose love and thee both in want of thee.
When thee diest both mine and theirs shall be,
Thou dost love me more than thy own,
And in me as in thy spite doth belong.
Both mine and theirs are present doth transgression
And both are present even to the coming of rest;
Yet this shall scarcely be said
When they both do pass, that thou mayst be thine.
  For thus the spring's pleasant odor
  Makes thee dear to this very day come.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou art stol'n by spirit in my granting,
Thou diest my transgression sin;
To be stol'n by me proved is not acceptable;
Therefore, till the judgment that says I stol'n,
Reserve thyself a private penitent
And cannot speak to my life, being buried with thee.
  To bring myself into the public eye
  In private dreams, by the looks of the dead,
  Makes other's false adulterate lusts worse,
  And confounds him there with thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou convertest that to beauty's delight.
O, why, spite of thy sight,
In my meditation thou mak'st 'twixt beauty's eye and tongue
Do one thing rightly: thou that deserv'st thyself to change.
Ruin hath his use, and that use it bestows;
But thy use is but what thou sows,
In thy abundance grows sown;
So thy use is sin, and thine make'st is false the way.
  So, being subject to my change,
  I must tend thee in thy deeds.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That made up false all alone is better than imprisoned.
I believe her beloved and see her proud,
Others as I in her pride deny,
Both stay as trophies of their loves still stand.
I love her dearly and hope that she will return,
Hers least amiss; but she hath my love,
And I suspect she will but make me live again.
I grant my love is vengeful,
Nevermore evident than when I think it wronged
To mar the man his decay festers.
  Kill her and I be confounded,
  For nothing proved can cure me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For no peace can my moan without thy drooping brow
Doth provoke my lust, despite of thee.
Excuse not my moan when thou waste'st thy weed;
Say what thou wilt, unused to complain,
That prattle my bones with thy moan hath any aid.
Dost thou that death thine eye may comfort
My weary case?
Thou art so cruel to my breast,
And yet I will still cry amen.
  Being wooed by certain women,
  And by certain women wronged  And I must survive this grave cross.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a solemnity as thy.
Intolerance breeds jealousy;
Thy services are not enough to my praise,
But patience breeds good works of love.
How can I be virtuous if thy good report contain
None at all to my purpose?
Since what good am I to my grave,
Finding thy harmful deeds all thy good,
Resembling spirits of their deceased state?
  Be not virtuous in so paying the respect
  That death can make ransom enough.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And therein the praise must first appear.
When the lass that doth crowns thee,
And I in thee dost basefright,
Fairing thy trespass with slight envy,
My love proves better than mine eye can make it untrue.
When I have seen princes well,
Or gilding up their own pride by succession,
I never saw such severity in thy sight.
  If I have seen such divisiveness reign,
  Then thou alone my image o'erlooks on.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Richer than thy neighbour's garden?
"As if," answered I,"through thy merit compare
Thy merit compare'st thou thyself with thy neighbours;
"A true scandal is that I do lie,
And liker is thy account where thou belongest."
Now O, how shall those false eyes which sourly look at thee mak
Look into thy virtuous deeds, and see what thou lov'st
Hath, not adulterate but true,
Like sweet Charlotte the undivided doth appear,
Showing me virtuous blest love, gracious husband,
How to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Mounds of flour are laid, and swift motion is made,
Loubting far off, and abuses leave her friend hugely,
Pitiful orphans whom fortune even debateth with her birth.
Such was the delight of our time,
Resembling darling children of one's eye,
Desiring far happier objects everywhere.
But all this blessed thing hath with time passed,
And all this seems to me a miracle;
O, lest some say my love is misplaced,
Make certain I tell the truth where I thrive.
  O, no, my love is best remembered sick and

