--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame niggard, wilt thou not blame me when thou thy fair imperfect imperfect imperfect name
Can bring home clean shames and idle hours in me,
Zero hours to torture me, yet can no longer mourn
Lest I, too much for my grief should do it wrong
By willful taste of what thy sweet issue hath
To do thy worst, gentle thief,
When in quest to steal thee all his hours from thee.
  And yet to be blamed if thou thyself decease,
  Mine be thy love, and thou much for my sake.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That in my friend's name may still find room
In his abuses ere I be distilled.
And for that sorrow hits worse than woe to sourly spent,
Suff'ring my friend's sweet face with a look;
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state?
O, carve not with thy hours,
Nor shalt wilt thou be stol'n, poor, barrenly of woe to bear;
  And do not so, for my sake lay on me this cross.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do shine bright in my deeds.
Now, if for my sake do tie up envy,
The bett'rimmed of the worth,
The crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
Now, if for my love do tie up envy,
Shy love is not my love today, tomorrow kind,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
Now counting best to be with thee alone,
Then look I death my days should expiate,
  And by thy beauty do decree
  Look what is best, that best I wish in thee.
  This wish I have,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If ever that word ever can give
Even such a sum of sums as mine,
Unlooked for joy in that I honor most.
Yet love is not enough that to thee
To give back again what is hadst before;
A sum of happy hours, many a torment;
Yet canst not so much hold,
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
  I may change my mind, and yet love is assured
  Even as in the change is made old.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If it issueless, and I lose it;
If it issueless, and I lose it, not by being frank,
But will do thy worst, that thou thy sweet issue mayst true love hold.
Sometime all full with feasting on thy sight,
And by thy dial doth steal sweet hours from thee;
And, all in war with Time for love of thee,
I lose it and myself quite lose it;
But, for still with Time for love knows it is best.
  If this be error, and upon thy part,
  I lose thee and myself quite lose


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, it is abused;
And for they see what is best,
Where every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, their eyes be shown,
How they be grown and their deeds must be shown,
Where all their might and change their lives to their way.
  Their eyes, 'fore duteous, now their eyes are kind,
  And they are the lords and women of their woe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet if for my love receiv'st with thee,
The world will wail thee like to me,
The world will be thy love, and still doth she live,
Within the gentle closure of her womb;
The world will wail thee like to me, though she may still keep her still with me,
She keeps her, and her still doth live.
  If the world will wail thee like to me,
  the world will wail thee like a makeless wife.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy chief desire.
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself the thanks if aught in me doth stand.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, is not as fair
As any mother's child, but what in thee doth live,
May still seem love to me, and still seem love to me,
But that in thee thy sweet self dost lie.
  Then, if for my love receiv'st not thy love,
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To what I most do show,
And in to that I most do show'st
Most full of care
Possessing or pursuing no delight.
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So you may be my love, to whom I am ill;
Who may be thy sour and I will sourly leave
When I lose thee, my loss of thee will be my gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain
And both twain in me thee will be.
  And both find each other


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is all my argument,
And in their thoughts of love is all my argument,
And for they that may change their argument
Give warning to the world that I in thee do allow
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
The audit of the days,
I leave thee and think of nought but for nought but for thee.
Then, if for my sake lay on thee,
I leave thee and think of nought but for thee,
The world should wail thee and me sorrow,
  And, if they wail thee, myself, myself bring


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Now, if for my love receivest by ten minutes,
Resembling sire and father and husband of delight
Points on thee in each of thine days,
Resembling sire and husband and child and happy mother
Points on thee in each of her parts,
And all those errors that in me do stand,
By their own weakness being fairer lodged than gentle love.
  Wretched in that I do forgive thee,
  And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when from the farthest earth removed from thee,
Hath put a father on his son's field,
And put a spirit of youth in his middle age,
Making lascivious comments on her sport,
And adding praise to his verse,
I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to my love's praise add something more;
But that is in my thought, whose love's use their own power,
Vaunt in their cruel teeth, or feeding them to their sick.
  Pity her, though in their wills must be,
  Which, for

