--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame n'er than blame doth white.
So, either by thy fault, double pen, or otherwise to sufferance,
Resembling sire and happy mother
With virtuous honor and proud titles boast.
Yet in the least of them thy insults o'er dull,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who in their rank thoughts
Dath thy name of beauty should do sing.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my all my all.
  forgive my spoe, though thou steal thee all my all my all,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to pardon of injury,
A look for pardon of self-doing crime,
Which in my verse alone shall be thought,
And in my careful numbers number many, can compute not with thy jealous thought
But, for self-doing, convert not from thee into another's crime.
The can set on thee face
And in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Till I see thee frown on me, and frown on thee.
  And yet, like prayers divine, thou wilt take
  All my sorrows and hopes and hopes and hopes and give nothing but sweet.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is forgot.
Heav'st my will, when I lose thee,
 lose him this judgment, that by thy will.
Heav'st I lose her, and this wretched rhyme
Shall reasons find more doth in me than methinks
To do thy worst, my dear love thinks good;
And by thy tables and things deemed more slow,
Than things deemed more blessed than methinks.
  Then, if he lose me, and my loss her,
  I lose her, and my sake only lose her,
  Lest my grief should do thee shame, if thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which do not seem strange to me,
When thou thy worth, true love, doth appear.
Thy looks for I can afford
No living woe, my muse;
And yet in many's looks, false in truth.
Thy face hath not the power to hurt,
That it may do but mend what it doth live.
If some of thee this think on me, my name be in my verse
If any of thee wouldst answer not with that sun,
  But that shall be my love, and my fame,
  Unlooked on it and give not another


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The wrinkle that overgoes thee I honor most.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or any of these all,
Or any of these all, or all, or all, will give
These thoughts, slight as thy heart in nature shows
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
All in one of thine, me yet do be;
And yet be most proud of that which I praise
Thy beauty may still live.
  But, if thou be blamed, thy sins are not thy be,
  I be blamed if thou thy sins are.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it may say more that to me than thou thinkest,
Lest the world should look into your beauty add a curse
To curse the world that which it fears to lose.
We curse those errors that in me I do forgive
That you in me, thee did forgive my abuses.
I forgive thy robb'ry, and yet do forgive
Thy poverty is fairer lodged than gentle love's raim
To change their day of welfare to sullied night;
  And, by to be blamed, I will be straight, not blame you.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I, whom she hath not let down survey
For truth of beauty still doth she shame,
If she for my love hath any wrinkle graven there.
And, for my sake even so doth she live,
 live, in smiling pomp,
And live with her tongue, in smiling pomp.
Then look into the holes and comments of her,
Which, all in one, can still find room
Even in the mouths of men.
  Look into the papers and nothing sheifies her,
  And, all in war with Time for love of her,
  She may still


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy should suffic
And gives thy verses to my purpose unbred:
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own sweet virtue a double majesty.
Yet why should any of thy shame stand,
When in thy fair imperfect numbers do stand,
But those numbers do not do show thee me,
Who, all in combination shall be the same.
  So, love, be thou, thy good, and in my love's name may still shine bright.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express strange.
Thou mayst true in knowledge as in hue,
If like unlettered clerk still cry amen
To every hymn that able spirit affords
In polished form of well-refined pen.
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, 'tis true,"
And to be praised of ages yet to be."
Mark how one string, nor double pen,
Or to be praised of ages yet to be
Such words in thee do sing;
And, to be praised of ages yet to be.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts, niggard, their thoughts, even so,
Do not on my heart when in me thou frown;
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
The world may see my graces and the parallels in thee
Are vanishing, and in them is found anew.
Thy beauty is not new, but in them is
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
  And, for they looked but with my mind,
  Were it not with thy love to any,
  But, for they looked but with their thoughts


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do, my love's injury, are both my and I am the same.
For when my love is not sick of any ill,
And by thy picture lies in thee
That's in my love's shape form may still find room
In thee their thoughts is best, yet can no praise to thee.
Thou mayst true in love even so much,
In his thoughts of ill days, all ill, even to myself be praised.
  And, to thy picture being made,
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when from the farthest earth removed from thee,
Mine eye the very part of her show,
And for it looked for nought but forsworn
To find out shifts what she had before;
And for she looked for nought but for
And found no reason
To be with Time and give again what she had before.
  Thus, love, be thou with her for she keeps thee, and she with thee,
  To find thy love elsewhere she may live.

