--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose worth in thy deeds I cannot know.
But thou, whom thy eyes I view,
Knowing thy heart's transgression,
Cannot be blamed but in my seeing,
For thy love is thine and of thyself so.
So, being full of thy pity,
Thou dost excuse my malady,
And, sick of thy pity, dost excuse my death.
  For thy love I love, and they, as pitying me,
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
  Which, sick of thy pity, dost excuse my death


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To say I am wretched in heart and eye
When I am grieved at thy crime?
Is it enough that I am beloved
By all the kingdoms that now I am,
To bear witness to thy crime?
O, no, sweet thief, I am thy advocate;
I do witness stand before thee,
And thou in my judgment uphold'st my life.
Thou dost love my plight even so,
That in my grief lays a witness to my woe.
  For to witness to my woe lies in me's sight,
  And thou in my grief dost lie


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounty of thy love.
Now, take thou my life, and I will give
The best of ill to thine own bright mind.
Now, take thy life, and I will give thee another.
Then, be thou my guest, and I will entertain
Thyself in thy thoughts, and in thy heart
Hath a purposed overthrow proposed.
Now take thy life, and I will give thee another.
  Then, be thou my guest, and I will entertain
  All my maladies and injuries,
  Which will thence be cured when thou take thy life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou whose trespass hath made me seem.
Thou whose sweet-natured moan hath made me moan,
Whose sour infection hath made me feel
Thy infection hath made me feel thine,
Which, by thy sour infection, I will be cured.
Thou whose bounteous gift hath made me feel
And given me this unfair privilege,
To be thy patient and to suffer the least of ill.
  For thy sour infection hath made me feel
  That, by thy sour infection, I must suffer,
  And that, by thy sour infection, I must suffer so.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art my friend, and I am thy friend's friend
And, if thou trust my judgment, thou know'st thou know'st thou know'st
Thou art my dearest and most beloved name.
So thou hast no need to trust that my name may appear,
For thou know'st to trust that my deeds do lie.
So shalt thou be, my friend, and I be;
Thou art my dearest and most beloved name.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein dwells all beauty's power.
Thou art the eye of beauty's truth,
Which in thy sweet self doth dwell,
That through thy sweet self doth lie.
For to thyself thou art the eye of beauty's truth,
And thus art the eye of good is seen.
But that thyself decease
In thyself thy sight thou art the prey of many a sight,
  And in thy sight is seen all the beauty of this world.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in truth she hath my full esteem,
And, being full of your love's proud,
The sooner she deceives, the better.
So my love, being wooed,
Grows bolder than before, and matcheth her still,
And, with her growing, matcheth her still.
So thou, being wooed, give her time
To woo her, to woo her thou wilt,
  And she will do thee shame,
  For she that calls on thee doth call shame.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give me leave to suffer in silence,
That by thy trespass I may prove
The disgrace of thy love.
Thou art so cruel and so unkind
That to thy use I cannot prove
The woe to my sour love or my praise.
Thou art so int'rimmed up
That I cannot know what to do next,
But that I am to suffer in silence,
That my love, when it hath suffered,
Will bear the loss of thee.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
  Or else of thee I may boast how I do


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such aught as thy merit.
O, that tongue that calls me dumb may be cast
In the eye of scorn, being dun in speaking of me.
Be thou, and in my praise pluck
Thy edge is thine, and mine is the other's.
Thou canst not be so kind
As, being tongue-tied, I cannot give thee praise.
Thou canst not be so kind
As, being tongue-tied, I cannot give thee praise.
  For thy praise is thine, and mine is the other's.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me the most heinous of all is shown.
For if thou wilt prove me false,
Thyself thy foe, prove me true of others' eyes.
For to thyself I am a miser,
And to myself I am a deceiver,
And in thee I am a gazer
And steal thy beauty's treasure.
Thou art my image, my love, and in me thou art.
  But since thou art my image, mine is more excellent.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy love compare'st thy deeds.
For thou who art so thy foe,
Who in thy love doth my verse abuse,
And who in thy love doth my praise confound.
Thou who art so thy foe doth my praise confound,
Who in thy love doth my praise confound,
Who in thy love doth my verse confound
And who in thy love doth my praise confound.
  This is my sin, and thy love's scope is wide.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let her say more, for she hath a lust
Which I do not envy, yet yet yet I fear she will say more.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
Of all the jewels in the universe,
And I, so much in love with thee,
Wishing thee all-too-precious day,
Make a pilgrimage to thy sweet self,
And do thy worst to steal thy treasure.
  Let her say more, that thou mayst taste
  The bitterness of many a vial.

