--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's shadows masked not with my lack;
For thy shadow's masked not thy strong cheek
To play the tyrants to my pleasure.
Till I brighten thy mind with thy gentle sun
With Nature's consent besiege my brow,
As fast as thou wilt besiege my frown,
Thou art much too fair, much too cruel,
To take sweet pleasure of thy self alone.
  Incapable of more, replete with thee,
  Mine ransoms thy pen and thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or to moan in my fury at foes subdued?
Shall foes be foes' welcome,
As foes to myself are welcome
Within my own sweet self respect.
I am shamed by that which I hold so dear,
Whilst other petty griefs shall blunter be
Than this hate that enfeebled mine eye.
I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
Which overcomes mine own grief, proves stronger than mine.
  To him that overcomes mine, I honor him
  Where other petty griefs have made worse.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may gaze
In thy glass, still active,
To gaze into thy mind's workings.
Now thy glass shall truly show
When thy glass shows me yourself in me,
But let that be a part of my soul
That drinks from the thine own glass.
Now thy sins shall be as thy sins sentenced,
Be it not thy sour leisure being charged with punishment,
But shall be: my sin is thy sour leisure being charged
With injuries wrought, and thy recompense
  Shall be high wealth, not poor leisure.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard truth will wail thee if thou my desire razed more.
Make answer, muse. Wilt thou not haply say
"Ah, tongue-tied muse; tongue-tied muse,"
Since assimilation shall vade,
Thy verses wit hath stopped short that growing rhyme.
If 't thee to my verse begin,
Thy beauty shall in thee flourish;
So shall my praises grow, thy praises shall in verse grow.
  And I can give them thanks if thou wilt give them thine.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou thyself decease, what thy doom
Will make thy steel stronger be?
Mine eye hath her eclipse endured;
My heart, thy dumb brain, hath put this all on thee.
Thy outward thus with outward show,
But the inward counterfeit
Is thine own made stronger by thy having thee on the level.
If thou survive my judgment fire,
Thou art a greater tyrant than thou art
And I an all-eating shame.
  To eat thee all I grind,
  Losing thee all my nourishment, all my shame.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when they see the rud'st or gentlest sight,
They know better art to grace grace be
Than unswept man made by changes.
Thou with thy self so willfully greeing,
Increasing store with loss and loss with store;
By this they understand thy worth, and, like bett'ring their eye,
Thou of their'stle, able, to blush through frown;
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
  And thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
  For thou through windows of thine age shalt be


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which deceived me quite as bett'ring her takes.
That she hath, and will, grown with my change,
Cannot allege I change my mind;
That I will keep thy mind open wide,
In disclosing her to all posterity
Which confounds me quite, to the loss of many a truth.
She hath, and will, grown with these particulars.
I grant, sweet love, thy beauty is wondrous.
  She hath, and will grow with thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be it not said I was false of heart,
Or given quick time haste thou mightst niggard truth impart.
This silence is to stop my flame
Which on thy humor bends, thrusts against the wood;
When it shall explode
Which Brethren' eyes shall famish for a look,
Which will be thy rage, not his bark,
Bearing the tanned bark of his jealous bark.
  Till then, if ever that beard arise,
  I'll live in this poor weed;
  Till then thou be brought
  By clones of thy dead foison.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Even so, if my dull bearer weep
Upon thy soft cheek for my dumb offender,
Thou dost plead that I am 'severe' in thy art.
Th' defendant doth use every tongue
He least his best pen, and my poor tongue doth give
Even that which thy poorly saith.
To 'cide this title is impaneled
And filed under the sovereign's wing,
  That tongue hath outstripped the rest of me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bones that with thee lie.
Thy love, thy great love, hath brought this on to a new pitch.
The earth can yield me but a little heaven,
Whereon my bones with thee lie,
For thee my body's am I feeble,
Without thy help whatsoever mine eye can send.
The Earth can yield me but earth,
Whereon thou dost entombed in men's eyes,
 which yet have skill, both in thy creation.
  So I am an April to thee, not a jig,
  For thou art all my summer's proof.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And those blenches that in thee do enclose,
Thy edge thine own deep in thy sympathies.
In other words, thou art my all the world,
And I must strive
To know thy gentle heart, which 'gainst thy gentle heart
Is to thy sweet uprear.
Thou art better than tongue, mak'st dead,
Thy edge should thine own unset.
  If my verse could stand more concise,
  The show would rehearse, notching in thy parts.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For well thou know'st to me thy sweet virtue;
Thou art all the better at this being hatched.
Called to that watch where thou art,
Authorized garrison of constancy, not to be taken
Unless thou break a twofold truth:
First, by thy good report establishing
Of mine own desert thy lie,
Secondly, by thy report not being false told,
Making a lie a better offense
Than a gilded tomb.
  To thee I witness call the fools of thy truth;
  The false goddesses mock thee,
  And thou hast much more

