--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shamefully misplaced,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, poor but free,
Although in many's surways of glass,
The eyes of love, thy heart in other place.
I grant, fair friend, and I assure ye
That I have scorned all and despised all
And given to thee a bounty ere thou be self-willed.
And, for my sake even so,
Beauteous thou art much of good and in my mind so poor
To be praised of ages yet to be.
  Then do not let my books be, poor as they are


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest,
Save that I have not locked up in any chest.
  But that I have not locked up in any chest,
  Even that my life on thee


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
He can no love be mine, nor mine own dear friend,
Unless thou take that word from thee, sweet self-loving,
Deserves thy worth in wanting words to be distilled.
But what of thee thy worth dost lie,
What worth in thee thy sum of good?
He can be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st,
By willful taste of what thyself dost give.
He can be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st by willful taste.
  The offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
  To him that bears the strong offense


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou wilt look into my mind,
Thy face hath her, and thee, too;
A frown on thy face, which can not vex me with inconstant mind.
I do not love her, my love her, that she may keep
Still keep pace; and when she may keep
By shifting change her place with shifting change,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
And for she may change her mind, and that she may change her mind.
  But do not so. I love her, and yet doth change her mind.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
The answer is 'tis the same, and I it is best.
For it depends upon that love of thine
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But, if it be writ, it be writ that thou mayst true love call
And in good faith doth lie,
That in good faith doth lie,
And in good faith doth lie,
And in good faith doth lie,
And in good faith doth lie,
  In good faith doth lie, and in thee it is abused.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see it is best,
Wherein it finds a better state to me belongs
To be the eye of heaven shines,
Where it may in my nature indirectly find
Or, if it be self-love, it be self-loving,
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
To be the taker of a taker's rage
To be the taker of a taker's rage
To be the widow of her self-love?
  Thou mayst answer not with thy heart,
  But let not be the wits of former days
  To subjects


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I saw her beauties more bright
Than in the eye of all her.
Then, if for my love receivest not from thee,
I receiv not by thy granting,
And yet lose her, my dear love's fair brow,
And lose her, my love's fair brow, if evermore enlarged.
  But if that thy love receiv not by thy granting,
  The mountain and the sea, the day and night,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own place some small honor razed
To say within thine own deep-sunken eyes
That thou in thy fair name of honor mightst evermore.
O, what excuse will my poor name find
When thou thy fair name of honor razed
By looking on thee in the living day,
When in dead night thy fair name of all thy fair name shall lie.
  And, all in sleep, dreams do see thee me waking
  From me far off, with others all.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The pattern I condemned for thy hand against myself,
And in thy hand against myself I condemned
The world-without-end hour
And 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence.
I then, if ever in my verse can write,
I must be scorned, and their vulgar adulterate eyes are kind
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  So, love, be thou, and in my verse
  When all my best is dressing old words new.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous reasons making no defense.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle, and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry in thee
Doubting the age will steal her treasure,
And her jewels trifles are vanishing.
For now her numbers are decayed,
And her antique pen both prefiguring and forgery;
And her skill, though more blessed may not be the same.
So should her beauty indirectly seek
Rosesource her treasure thou wouldst convert;
She may convert but what is writ, and yet be hell bent her deeds to cross.
  convertest she may convertest thou convertest
  To live, and yet be hell,
  she pricked

