--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown shall blot the heaven with my stain;
And thou blackest night my sightless night shall see,
Despite thy fair imperfect virtue.
Have I not seen thee wink before my sightless night,
Lights thine eyes when thou art gone,
Whilst my poor lips, red with fury,
Feed'st thy hungry eyes with fresh blood;
And if they see thee wink, why not thy black night be
 ?
  Wretched in this alone, that thou bear'st a part
  To take thou black's breath in thy veins.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For there are still more to sufferance than at hand,
And I am to blame if my friend or I
Disdains my reasons why I am shamed,
Or if my sorrows prove more short than mine.
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
  And that, for thy sake, my deepest sense
  Makes my heart moan through heavy sleep.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
Within the level of my desire.
But then, if that be error,
I have no farther to go
Than think the world may see,
By seeing what the lease is of thy dear love.
He hath, but that is not his feature
All gilded monuments to thee,
Whereon the sun hath put a bounty on bounty's treasure.
  And him as for a see, my saucy amazeth
  That beauty in thy jealousy works so
  That every tongue doth teach it how to sing.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose adverse party hath his own unfair advantage,
Pointing to thee thy friend's shop.
Thou dost benefit from thy friend's kindness
If he have thee to ransom, of more glory than thy friend hath.
For what's more pleasant than a common delight
If thou thy friend give invention light?
Thou dost entertain the peace,
To whom thy sweet friend dost deceive,
That her jewels shall be a perpetual treasure.
  And him thou hast the eternal best of both.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
Since first laid to thy sweet face,
That every private jewel hath got his due.
Now thy most precious honor hath vanished,
And the title of most dear acquaintance hath gone;
Now thy sum of proud titles is gone,
And my most precious love is gone, and my most precious jewel
Is gone, and my most precious love is had,
  And thence thou wert truly deceased.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, as the riper should by time decease,
Thou dost deceive. Sweet love, what dost thou thyself crave
And what thy glass shows thee of thine own?
Ay me, but yet thou art certain
Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee
Calls back the lovely April of her prime;
So thy April, sweet love, shall be,
While my sweet love shall in thee be.
  If thou not renewest thy march, thou dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which untainted with all truth would give me invention.
How like Eve's apple
In cheek of prime quill
Were it not assailed by the ambush of young days
To witness duty, subdued to his base?
A flower well esteemed, sweet thief of sweet beauty
Who in summer's breath besiege
All kinds of weeds, loves to lose all;
But, for his rose, no such flower hearketh
Nor his thinly pierced finger nor his scythe could make defense.
  For sweet beauty is suspect,
  And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beggared of thy sweet not with thy history,
Made tongue-tied by authority;
For whether we are or thee depends on my judgment;
For whether we are thee or thee depends upon my love.
That thy beauty may be termed a flatterer's delight
Than thy blunt invention beweep my dull ear;
That thy dull substance may in bending be heard
Within the bending of well, from thy mind quite so.
  Hence, beauteous niggard, to whom thy sweet humor doth give.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
To give away thy treasure is to forfeit much glory;
And losing it, I lose all pleasure.
Thou canst not ransom me of torts,
Lest my jealous thought should do thee shame
Give hap to my wife; thou art my all.
Thou canst not ransom me of ill will,
Since well thou know I am ill.
Thou canst not ransom me of ill will,
Since well thou know I am ill.
  To be so blunt as tongue that my praise cannot be abused.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my tongue that says most,
Whose influence is thine and born anew.
Thou dost call it folly, that heretic
Which works on leases of short-numbered hours,
To steal thy breath and make worms worms thine heir.
Till I yield thee some fresh find,
One worthier than thy patience, but best kept so.
Mine eye hath 'scaped this sorrow,
And from thence to thee I derive;
  And thence I learn, and thou my sorrows seem to grow.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the world,
And lo, if it be error, my sin is my love of thine.
That sin, compounded am I with falsehood,
That on thy sweet love of thine,
Cannot be cured by thy false accusing.
Thou canst not be shamed by that which thou hast done,
Therefore I appeal; and, beweep, I do forgive thy robb'ry.
  Incapable of more, replete with more,
  My appeal be thy truth, and thy correction.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
'Tis better to be strong than vile esteemed,
When not to be obsequious taken
Of others' gains and losses wrought.
As on the jade:
One by one swift messengers from thee
Applying his might to th' overthrow,
Others' gains and losses wrought.
The beast that bears thee, though mounted on the wind;
Yet, having thee, swift extremity is not so.
'Methinks thou art stronger than an eye;
So, for thy love and for himself so,
  Use thy might to th' advantage of others' lives.

