--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
Beyond all repair, all repair being made.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
They curse at thy sight, and pity me
That thou in their wills mayst bear all wrong.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And thou bright young womanizer still commits adultery.
  Their lascivious comments on thee change thine eyes;
  And thy sweet thief still commits adultery.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For you to my sorrow add a curse,
Which my friend hath, to constancy confined,
To trust my amity;
Unless my friend were possessed of more,
Or worse, I am false to trust him.
If he were possessed of more, my friend could not blame
Unless my friend, possessed of more, should ransom me.
If he were, I am shamed,
And must be strongly shamed by that which he commits.
  Incapable of more, be it from me or from him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
By releasing me of thy will, by paying too much rent?
He that pays too much, my forfeit hath not been paid.
Thou that art hist, that doth other pay
Of thyself thy consummate self,
For what is 't but mine when thou art paid thy self?
Then what is thy worth, what thy treasure is but mine?
  To him thyself thou dost pay,
  And what is thy treasure thou thy abundance brings?


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than all the better part of me can give.
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In the universe, and by extension my dear doting heart
Worthy must in bounty surmount.
The world is his store, and thou must depend
On that which he bestow'st;
Thou art the tenth, ten times happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
  Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
  To single thought, thy sweet self so near.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair for our timescale,
Beauteous, blunt the lion, and cruel behemoth,
To be a god, to thy face untrimmed.
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
To me thou gav'st thy pyramids built up with newer might.
In others' pyramids thou gav'st thy height;
Yet this thy gentle gift shall in thy age be
Not forgotten, unless thou get a son.
  To be so tickled they would change their state
  And


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown,
They know thy face better than thy tongue?
Thou art thy mother's glass, and therefore they view
Thy beauty indirectly; in that they know
Thou art her tongue, and therefore they admire
Her all too; in that they sense thy sweet skill.
I have seen by thy uneared womb
The bounteous gift of thy love buried age;
But now they see it hath been disabled,
And buried treasure hath not cured well.
  Thou gav'st thy buried age well,
  And thence they look anew.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Above the rank of proudhonor, deserved of many,
Yet I cannot help but sympathise
With those she doth steal thee sweet hours from thy heart.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And though she steal thee all my lays,
The bounteous gift thou mayst in bounty cherish.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over heart,
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
Till she pluck thee back again, by gentle work.
  And do thy worst, dear heart, to correct errors


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Speak of my defects, who, having thee,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
Feeding the flames with sweetly burning fuel,
Making dead wood more strong than living lips;
Bringing back the dead, that thy burning
Could make dead wood more strong.
But thou art all my art and dost advance
In other respects so.
  For thy sweet virtue gives scope to die;
  Till that virtue be broken thou art all my art.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than thy gentle yet more.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st.
  Therefore, churls, thou shalt not be grieved at that which thou wilt;
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my heart that all tongues with their richly compiled tell.
Thou art as thy sweet self, being tongue-tied,
Lascivious to the point of praising,
Making tongue-tied comments upon thy name.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy common slander.
  Then others for the breath of words respect,
  Me for thy sweet character, speaking of thy breath.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
The earth can have but earth, which is his due;
My body is thine, the sea is his;
My spirit is thine, the earth is his;
And, for thy reasons making no defense,
My body thus with thy gravity is proved.
Thou that art now the world,
The self thou pioneer,
Creating all-too-precious thee.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy world,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then my grief shall have no name,
Nor Lightspeed with her swift succession shall fame his name;
Nor Time's fickle glass shall blazon his beauty;
Nor Time's dear-pied weeds shall weed with thorns,
Borne on the bier with thy husbandry;
Nor Mars his apple nor Mars his beard shall fame his beauty;
Nor Mars his beard nor his beard shall disgrace his pride;
But he shall still shine bright
When thou from Time's brow treads on the ground.
  His sacred majesty shall still shine bright
  Where men's eyes are wont to

