--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, thy black, are mute;
Thy friends' eyes, thy friends' gold complexion
Are dun; my black friends' eyes are dun;
My friends' tongues, thy white tongues
Are dun; my black friends' tongues are dun.
So thou, friends of mine, hast put on black,
A friendlier acquaintance than thy tongue;
Thou that gentlest tongue that more hath more expressed.
  For thy black acquaintance I have heard,
  Since thy black acquaintance I have heard it said.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my grief, though my grief be termed a gainer.
How much more praise deserved thy pity give
Than thou that which thy confessor gave thee so thine own.
How much more praise deserved thy gentle salve
If thou couldst use the gentle wrinkle of thy confessor?
O, how much more praise deserved thy gentle virtue!
  How much more praise deserved thy gentle virtue!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
Thou art his vassal bound to stay
And give him leave to go,
Unless my nerves are brass or hammered steel.
Be thou the tenth self, ten times happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
Ten times thy worth will give thee leave,
And ten times happier me than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee.
  Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
  In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose adverse party is thy advocate,
And he that calls upon thee will be his.
Thou art the tenth adverse party, ten times more in worth
Than those whose tenth adverse party is thee.
Ten times thy worth will be the tenth adverse party,
And ten times thy worth the greater.
Ten times thy worth will be the tenth adverse party,
And ten times thy worth the greater.
Thou art the tenth alien, ten times more in worth
Than those whose tenth adverse party is thee.
  And, ten times thy worth will be the tenth adverse party,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and I thine own.
For why should I not praise thee in that thou art
Fair, kind, and true?
Because thou art thy sweet self thou art,
Till I sometime question my judgment
And chide thy beauty and thy straying youth
Who lead thee in their riot even there
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
  Hers, by thy granting, by thy not being false.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy bending all the way.
How much more praise deserved thy image should expiate
Than niggard truth would willingly impart?
How much more praise deserved thy sluttishness
If thou couldst answer "This fair child of mine eye
Shall sum my count,"
By praising thy image alone.
How much more praise deserved thy neglect
If thou couldst use the strength of all thy state?
  How much more praise deserved thy neglect
  If thou couldst use all thy might?


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who steals thee sweet hours from thy heart;
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
Who confounds me with inconstant mind,
  Which alters me with inconstant mind,
  Which alters me with inconstant mind,
  Which alters me with inconstant mind,
  Which alters me with inconstant mind,  Which alters me with inconstant mind


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that hath my mind's ear.
Richer than thy love is, blunt thou my knife?
Beauteous nimble enough are we to thy dear dregs
To blunt the sharp'st intents; blunt thou thy knife even there.
Beauteous nimble enough are we to thee
To thrust in the sharp'st of masonry,
Making a masonry of masonry more strong
Than those stone which the stern wolf doth steal nimble from thee.
  Incapable of more, replete with more, replete with thee,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than spurring to a halt.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that dear December date.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bad, when thou my love receivest it.
Thou dost love my bad, that my bad doth willfully appear.
To be so tickled they would change their state
And situation with thy bad, to change their state with thy good;
They would do more for me than thou wilt;
And I for thee will comment upon that offense;
Speak of my lameness and I straight grow;
Thou dost love my bad and my straight grow;
And I for thee will comment upon that offense.
  Their thoughts are but sweet thoughts, made up to


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou art more than thy state,
Against thy reasons making no defense.
Thou art the stronger state,
And that stronger is by thee defeated
To take what weakens his strength.
By this I witness call thine own false compare,
A false compare made to thine own.
Thou art more strong than high birth,
And that gives thee all thy might.
  Then, if thou survive me, I'll give him all my glory.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had I seen thee depart
Than by chance of my seeing,
The farther off from my sightless brow
The farther off from my sightless brow
The farther off from my sightless brow
The farther off from my heart's level
The farther off from my sightless brow
The farther off from my heart's level
The farther off from my sightless brow
The farther off from my sightless brow
The gentle wrinkle on thy face
Which heals thy wound and cures not sorrow.
  Receiving thy peace, I joy; but then, no longer glad,
  I

