--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving parts do mock,
Yet be most proud of those same.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is faire,
Still in my love's veins thou gild'st the hair;
And for that sweet thief which sourly robs thee back again,
She steals thee all her treasure and me quite,
And yet in the lily I think on thee,
The owner of her tongue doth willfully appear.
  The owner of her tongue doth willfully appear,
  And in her tongue doth she live, too.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I have no reason why
My grief is not eased by night,
But when my friend hath found a better state to me.
It is my grief, and in my woe to woe to woe to woe to woe to woe,
And by day my friend hath found a better state
To torture him on his crime.
I have found good reasons on thy offense
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  To be sure that is not false I swear,
  And in thy love to any, evermore enlarged.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
He can afford
No defense
I in thee thy fair dost lie,
Unless thou take that word from thee,
And in me thou dost beguile the world,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
But in the onset come; so shall I taste
At first the very worst of fortune's might;
Then, if they lose thee, find another way,
They are but stewards of their excellence.
  And so shall I taste
  at first the very worst of fortune's might


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy walks with gentle gait,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
More than that tongue that more hath more expressed!
Thou mayst true in love speak!
But that love may still find room
In thee, of thy gentle gait.
  More than that tongue that more hath more expressed!



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy is not so great,
But that I may change my mind when I change my mind.
That, in love, thy picture shall ever be shown,
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
To change my mind when body's changing course untrimmed.
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect.
  Then may I dare to change my mind, and in love may change my mind.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their own souls live, die;
Then, if for my love receivest by thy deeds,
I cannot blame thee for my love receivest not by thy deeds;
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun,
When I saw her frown on the face of heaven,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, if she live and die,
Then, if she live and die,
Then, if she live and die,
Die, I not leave her till he live.
  But leave her till he live and die,
  And live and die, and he in her parts do lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own dear-purchased right;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself the due a lawful plea commence.
Such civil war is in my love and hate
That I an accessary needs must be
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
  Then, if for my theft, in thy fair name of self-doing,
  I will not be fair, poor, nor despised
  Unless thou take that honor from thy name.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that I who woos
In thee thy sweet beloved name of single woe.
But that I may not evermore express
Than in the least of praise.
Nay, if thou wilt, if evermore express,
By that sweet praise do not so much
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
Then, if, I say, thou wilt answer not haply say
The beauty of thy mind
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'ring bark, every wand'ring bark,
And in thy change is my invention spent.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'ring bark, like to the wand'ry of the wights,
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
  And yet, by day, she may still seem true,
  Even as when her husband is dead.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
And, for they see thee frown on me,
At such who, thy picture in my sight
Drawn after thee, thee, myself bring forth
  Awakes


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my sake lay,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love's use it;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thy poverty refusest.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must

