--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy black garments do give light.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And though thy worth a limit past my praise,
Thy complexion still my chief desire,
To set a form upon desired change.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of thy will;
But, like a willing patient, I will drink
The strong poison of thy poison,
  Which strong drinks well of ill.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals my wounded bosoms or cures my grief.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy praise redeem
Where it hath my friend's esteem to blame.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss.
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
  Ah, but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
  And they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
My life hath in this line some interest,
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
  Then thou mayst be true, though altered new
  As thou goest onwards still will be learning.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy edge should blunter be than thy appetite,
Which but today by feeding is allayed
Tomorrow by tomorrow sharpened.
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother,
Who, all in war with thee, shall ransom thy love,
And all the rest shall ransom thee;
For she hath not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not.
  She hath not locked up in any chest,
  Save where thou art not.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy sweet favor or deformedity weak,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
And in their wills thy name be taken.
Thy adverse party is thy advocate's guest,
And their adverse party is thy advocate's guest
And their guest suffers when that adverse party deceases.
  To be so tickled they would change their state
  And situation with thy thoughts,
  That, sick of welfare, thou wert deemed a must.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it is best concealed in the moving parts.
For why dost thou use
So great a force to advance,
Thou that art more strong than spurring to his side?
Why dost thou use the wind to advance
And fortify thy way,
Stealing thy way from thy friend to thee?
  To keep thee off track,
  Since my friend hath all too short a vantage.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Much liker than her own desert,
For truth proves thievish for a frown.
When I have seen by spirits taught to ruminate
How far a lie to break
To trust those spies that wear the brave state,
How far a lie to trust those that wear the brave state,
Speaking of true things that defy me;
How far a lie to trust those that wear the brave state,
Speaking of false witness duty,
That I an accessary needs must be
To that trust that well from hence immortal life.
  But when an accessary needs be,
  Then patience must


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, why dost thou use
That tongue to express thy love?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou use
So great a scope to show thy love?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou use
So great a scope to show thy love?
  If there be none, thy great worth the world enjoys it.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art much too fair.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on my muse?
Till I return, of ten,
Than answer, of ten times thy praises are spent.
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow.
  Till then, of thine ten times thy praises be counted
  And thou, of all writers, best of all.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee doth comment.
Thou art my all the world, and my earth is thine.
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
And thou my grave is thine alone.
Return, forget me, and straight redeem
The lark that says "This tongue that sings in thee is all tongue."
Speak of the spring and foison of the year;
The crow that mak'st dead wood 'gainst his sweet sound.
  For sweet birds do not so.
  To sweet birds I send them from thy heart,
  And they to


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a jewel, will bestow it;
Duty, like a jewel, will bestow it
And beauty's form would show it.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore thy worth a limit past my praise.
For what is thy worth if thou art so strongly enfeebled
That I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by a part of all thy glory live.
  Then, if thou survive me, thou art much more blessed than my poor name.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
I'll run, and thou my love will steal my woe;
Thou art more strong than a woman wert thou first made.
If, though mounted on the wind,
With my love's quick objects swift objects disabled,
My husbandry shall be thy delight,
Nor her gentle thief shall be thy delight.
Thou art more suited than a woman's eye
To his quick objects than a woman's heart.
  To thee I send this written embassage
  To witness duty, not to show my wit

