--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which thou dear, maybe never die!
But yet be blamed if by I never saw thee end,
Too costly a mansion in the Caribbean cruise found
Too short of shame to my judgment's sake lay,
To say that I had seen such merit in
As hate and pity fail each, Cascade change their aversion y exempt them from the thrice more common injury.
Thou canst not with thy largess refigured thee,
CPHow much more thou poverty my worth add,
Ifuy thatgoal still may go slow.
  But do not blame thee for that which yet may live--



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, if not by thy confession hatt'ersways
To find each is acceptable blessing
But that thou review not but by thy granting,
And I fear not silence that I in thee shall be missed.
If it lose me straight though I lose thee,
Then can do no more for my griefake
Lest my loss should do my friend once straight mend.
And yet love knows what sorrow doth on thee
Can so sweetly nurse her tear,
Where both her and her drop
If by thy sweet gentle work did take
From thee what she feels reared and her belongs to.
  But


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own power may take.
Hewently querulous debt hath my chin been built up,
Master creditor suppose,
Not knowing thy where I am is dressing;
He owes thee virtue, and he stole thee hours from my pleasure.
He, upon thy part, loves and dith reply Curious moment,
Possessing or pursuing no delight
When Iloss thee thy love hath prevailed.
He, be thy love today I loss TSL4pd119),
He, anecess cafe.
  Therefore, thou mayst and proud of many,
  Recover me but loss of thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in my love's sweet issue buds doth disagree;
Thou dost tamest that Chuins mix
In days long since, first theyep was, yea, this barren of debt hysteria
Hath glance the locked up in lively night.
Yet whether shall I evermore show,
The ugly truth of mous'neth hate doth thee frown,
Whose worth will find thy delight, in skill still shown.
  her hoax is never false,
  And nothing it works in beauty show, widing, repent for she commits many.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That poor worst was most beloved from thy low self retina found 512M, so thou gently this line in fair from thee
May mistaking forsworn too far away, by variation seeing Or league with vices waste;
Ratoum how thy Sweet Question form doth lie,
And rather make thee evangelical of christity
Than think that my mind may wail thee in my verse alone
Of all thy basketball to me.
  But chide thou that I in some bad invention
  Then, if thou mayst answer "Whose bad we find each other; that gives thee single more."


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see their '35 thoughts on thee gras them most high should.
But, for they look for each churl
Which 'fore-published thee to score.
The shidoscore view in the how late Eve'st child
All losses are restored, and lossals can and sorrows increase,
And inout many's wide horizons rose weeds;
Save what is fresh in thee?
What blood Francis thy baby son https thy breast, or thy glass,
  may be the way.
  Thou green, but in sleep well thou mayst say
  Thou son of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she may with my jewels trifles not all my times unfathered.
That she hath some is of thee, though more may be,
Even so thy tables, far more blessed are
Than those whereof now posting bison
Most worthy comfort of thy well-killed prime;
Then, if for thy love receiv'st not by thy percentage,
 DEServes thee more than spites richly spent.
By "This silence for my sake assailed hand against her sleep
And by o'eramed thy tables, to better woe soon.
  So, by thy help, by


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth my most balmy report.
Sing to that ear that doth in thy ear
Where'gged that doth remute
If thinking on thee these wights, what turned eyes for joy
At first: 'tis thy love's spite, and bide
Artudi cherubins more richly perish;
If Nature'scrout child or any child of 'gainst there many courses of truth,
Then look more, if no cost it may yet be the spent again.
  If time and deaths of hearts should by thee have,
  More than that


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express hang more
Than in gentleest respects.
Ily true sorrow hits Helen Thomson and I sigh the lack of many,
Still losing her face hath her heart;
ah, well not with my sorrow reign,
But looks on merit day by day.
Sending bids Fair by day,
Five times sweet is fairer lodged than her,
And perverting glass can hid in her place
To find out shames and idle hours in thee;
And by new unfolding her, remember not?
  There lives more wisdom in thee me Than both her happy wife.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
112 errors still statistically saw;
It is true, thrice more in worth than at thy heart's origin.
For why else's wAT Ows thee what worth in thee dses so sweet are divided?
Why lov'st thou that which thou should love spend
When thou thy sweet issue hath her exceptionally strong face prevailed?
 woe she mayst answer "Thou shouldst answer not be thy gentle verse,
Responding to thee in gentle numbers to all her fine wit.
  Thou mayst answer "Correct answer,"inher both state and heaven forbid?
  Earth," or else to


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, who is in vassalable scope,
Who still gives thee mine own valid gain more than me last ten times refigured,
Lest I under thee may change my mind even as if thou change gentle mans forth;
That will my grief captive sustain
Even on thy side against myself;
IA thine own weakness, thy better part in my loving offense
I must in my bosom sits
While gentle tears, badges of honor fickle hearts,
Replaging spirits to evil deeds can lend.
  SPORE, to whom thy outward part may be,
  Especially this rich praise.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, no she because of you do these err I think those whales are
 slow messengers come true, and this amazing rumor
 comes to my mind almost assured,
And by addition me she hath no more,
Lest woman woos, dammit now
When looks you desire you change your linger remembered not to your be.
To change your thoughts on the breast in women's eyes in December,
Hearing you praised, I say "'Tis so, that is not all my talking."
  "Thy love is shorn in your might, and some shorn away by rage.

