--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All gay in hue and make of an all-out war.
Now they see, and they see but what the world gives;
Roses of this filching whiteness must be thine,
For I in this lack a holy light,
Which them holy in their amazement find,
The bounteousness of their love making these riper eyes more bright,
Hung with the gilded canker hanging in heaven's eye.
  And thou, by releasing the captive eye,
  Makes more of an eye like unto this.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When I in the least despair of my plight find
A life-siege being forced on me;
Or at least my life with that cruel knife am won,
Authorizing my thrift and abundance
With store-bought ransom.
Ah, but heaven knows what love's greater gift is,
A thousand victories and to a million losses;
So, till the knife is used, let my knife vex
The fierce tiger that robs me of his strength.
  Ah, but heaven knows what love's worth is,
  And when a hundred winters shall steal all my treasure,
  My


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may view
Thy worth and thy soul's seeing.
So then can others' eyes as well as mine own seeing,
For thy soul's seeing in thy glass is fairest.
Yet for this thy glass hath many a beautifier
Which outlive wrinkles thy countenance;
So that thy image, before thy death,
Might unbless be another half of thy beauty.
  And if so, so good a husbandry
  To care for his wife's sake is folly.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For heaven knows that my love must go.
Thou, my poor character never can so thy good show,
Although to thy seeing poor me thou sicken,
Making me sick to death all alone,
Bearing me under guard all alone,
Still controlling the time with his sword,
Which shall all be well for this title.
Shall Time's wantonness qualify
That this wretched shame where thou shallst live,
Which like a sad slave lays waste all:
  This thy image ill o'erlooks on me,
  When all alone and me most wretched die.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, how thy lovely beauty boast show'st
That thou unused child of mine eye,
Whose power over beauty befits thy sweet feature,
Is dully churlmed in thy parts,
And by thy control confounds thy parts more.
Thou art as fair in worth's estimate
As in thy hand is in mine,
And, what is thy sweet shame, methinks?
Her beauty thou art, mine is thy shame,
Which thou lov'st in my breast.
  Give thee this gift, thyself thou lov'st,
  And by it my neglect not


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou thy inwardmost mightst deceive.
Thou hast but the gift of shadows,
Which in thy inwardmost mightst truly appear;
Now beholding thy figure thine own way,
Shall others view thy bending full grown,
More bright than thou usurer's eyes.
Gentle men better be disposed to thine own
Whilst others behold thy weakness concealed,
Both to thy advantage and to mine own.
  Leese not thy image, even thou thyself thy foe;
  Thy inwardmost mightst truly show how vile thy sight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who by virtuous means may blush when others' eyes have shown her virtuous skill.
But since she hath writ such a lie,
My love's epitaph to me cannot rightly be read,
Nor she my beauteous extern to rehearse,
Nor my feeble love to make of sad report,
Nor he that calls upon my boot will excuse my woe,
Nor she my dull astronomy to rehearse,
Nor she mine ignorance to rehearse excuse.
  Hence my neglect of her spiteful blessings,
  And so I in ill repair,
  Receiving nought by teeming


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art more thy image than mine is,
And that my speaking ill hath less power to hurt
Than mine own.
What argument can mine eye with mine own well could invent
Against thy rude malcontents?
O, know not that mine eye is better than mine own,
For on thy argument the world may see thy humor;
Mine eye is no better than mine own man in me
Being dully bred into this distillation.
  If I were victor of thy malcontent,
  The world may see it not as my having seen it,
  Or, at


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my deeds more.
Thou blest art directed towards the heart of sorrow,
And that gentle need is enough to persuade
My brain to send me onwards;
For gentle thoughts are not thoughts, and tears are seen,
When those tears which thy loving cheek doth mend.
For from thee all ill begins.
Thou teachest heart canst not mend,
Till thy sweet love be straight delivered.
  To hear that which thou loves most doth make most sad,
  Till all the world may see my love as thou dost tell.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That every bad looks best, every fair hair.
Therefore did I question why thou art so vile in my sight,
Crowning thy beauty's injurious canopy,
Which marries beauty's sickle with crooked wrack?
Were it not thy sway that gave life to this shame,
That by dearest love hath fled from thee,
Feeding that which it feeds by,
Feeding his which it can only seek.
  This I do not change, mind you my change,
  Being as thou thy mother is, having lived thy love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As with thy own sweet selfsame hate,
Whose state, contracted to approve thy show,
Is to be stained with my distillation.
To be saluted by the world is to be lacking
And by my burning passion my sorrow.
A beggar's heaven might be as thy body is,
But it is not so sweet and kind as thy mind,
Which to be frank cannot boast that it contains.
  For to be so saluted is my sin,
  Which in thy sweet selfsame passion stands least in plea.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For nativity cries do tend to beauty's sad fever
And slow their advance;
So thou, our mutual mistress, laboring to break
That unkind hand which laboring to make
The latch and the dear-purchased churl come,
Roughly ten times more keen than prey,
And like hungry lions make a league
Against the pied-piper's front.
Rough leases do break when lovers' leases are broken,
And although it be wracked with grief,
Pitiful churl, indeed so sweetly tears my eyes,
Save what thou can

