--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, like to the wakened lion,
Are raven black, and my heart in wantonness.
Yet do not so much as my lips praise,
Thy eyes, which now are raven black,
Are choirs to the wakened ear;
My heart, which now is wakened,
Hath put on black, and my heart in wantonness.
  But thy thoughts, like to the wakened lion,
  Have no such feature, being raven black.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my bones and veins with my loving thoughts
Are for memorial to thee?
No, sweet thief, thou steal thyself thy treasure,
And in my veins thou grow'st thy love's name.
Thou art the very heart of this crime;
I am thy beloved, and thou that trust
In my life and in my love's name grow.
O, what a torment would that my body be if thou couldst break
The bank with my steal, and then pay the ransom.
  In other words, thou steal'st thyself thy love's treasure,
  And in my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
And each other's true love in me drown.
Now let me be obsequious, O my love,
And suppose another man decease
And steal my life; that my life be forfeit,
For that my love hath no love to lose.
Now let me be obsequious,
And suppose another man deceive
And steal my life; that my life be forfeit,
And that my love hath no love to lose.
  Then, if thou survive me, so be my life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And do not make me tomboy,
For then thou my guest in thy sight
Will be thy advocate and prove me worthy.
Thou, who art so fond on praise,
Shall objects of much praise compare
To thy gracious bosoms?
Thou, who hast the gift of all-too-precious eyes,
Shall objects of much praise compare
To thy gracious bosoms being made.
  For thyself thou art so fond on praise
  That, till thou be removed, I will be tomboyed.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the grave whereon the great thief was buried,
And thou shalt in that place find,
The precious jewel of thy crime.
Thou art the grave whereon the great gazelle
Is gored and strangled, and the maiden maiden maiden is buried,
And thou, thyself buried, is a very dear grief.
O, what a tomb have those bloody eyes for!
They looked into thy soul and found thee dead;
They looked into the rose and found thee dead.
  But thou, thyself buried, is a very dear grief.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost deceive the hearts of hearts.
Thou art the sun, moon, and stars to all the world,
And they view thee with their own eyes,
But that thy glory in them lies,
Stealing from their sight the treasure of hearts.
They see thee in their thoughts,
And they esteem thy beauty far greater.
Thou art the sun, moon, and stars to all the world,
And they view thee with their own eyes,
But that thy glory in them lies,
Stealing from their sight the treasure of hearts.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she hath some treasure in store.
If she were true, she would be a counterfeit,
Making of more than beauty's mark a thing
Compare'd with the best of the best.
But that is not my love's story,
A story told and told with equal care
Of other women's eyes and tongues is her story,
A story told and told with equal care
Of other women's breasts and lip and eye and tongue.
  So true a story as that tells of mine,
  Which she tells in all her glory.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls thee out of thy sight,
Whose love hath my heart the right to arrest?
O, be wary, dear heart, of my being taken
From thy breast, where thou art not, being taken,
But taken with thee, being taken of thee,
Gored with my love, being taken with thee.
O, be wary of thy tongue, for it hath my heart the right
To arrest no matter what thy bad faith says.
  For thy love hath my love made a curse,
  And thence it is lawful that in me thou shouldst hurt.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such poor character as thou useest.
For what is more bitter than sorrow's injury,
When sorrow's injurious effect is confined?
Be thou the critic of my deeds,
Thyself so intented that I do praise thee;
That tongue-tied respect for thee
May bestow upon me thine own due.
For to speak of mine own well is not to sell
Mine own well, though thou mine be willing lend.
  So may I, gentle critic,
  Finding thy love to be lacking,
  To thee I am so intented.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is most heinous in me.
For I love thee in such sort as thy love doth excel,
That in me it is the fairest of all.
For if it be false that my heart doth sing,
Myself thereby the fairest praise be given.
Thou art my all the world, yet yet I hold thee in such esteem
That I in thee hold such sway over the rest
That I in thee holds all my all.
  But if it be true that my heart doth sing,
  Then I hold thee in such esteem that I in thee holds all my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that of others' hate, grounded on true love's being.
Thou, whom nature hath not made for love,
Yet in her gentle work hath made for hate,
And that in her gracious grace
Thou dost love her with fair aspect,
Which she hath made for hate.
Her gracious gift hath made her hate more
Than mine own, and she hath made thee hate her.
  In thee this I witness my most true feeling,
  Which I in thee will be witness.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then the proud face of fortune
Presents her with all her might,
And all her mightiness brings to bear
The proud title of queen.
Then can the proud eyes see,
Whose beauty and all their wealth are crowned,
And all their might bring glory to their brow.
Then can the proud eyes see,
Which for their wealth and all their might are crowned,
And all their might bring glory to their brow.
  Such is the appeal of their sight,
  That every tongue says beauty should look so.

