--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst shadows like to thee do mock my sight.
Thou hast restored thy acquaintance, and I restored
To that which thou hadst before.
Return, forget me, and do not kill
My spirit, for I have put on thine own
Till Death my spirit am renewed,
And Death's second self, that grows with thee,
Self-substantial with thee.
  Thus have I had thee as a tomb
  To witness to thy sweet virtue.
  But now, with thy help, I must leave thee alone,
  Die single, and thine offenders confined.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am to trust those friends I trust
And that I am shamed by their praise?
O, no. I am shamed by their proud report,
And their gross gross painting is so bad
That I in my private parts of thee do mock,
Making my friend's proud list, proud of many.
How dare I then, poor but free, steal thy name,
And use it to my advantage?
  I am shamed by their gross painting,
  And their vulgar humor is so gross
  That my friend and I must attend to his pleasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may be
From thy will, not blinded by thy will.
Now he that calls upon thee to ransom,
I ransom him of thy will,
And thou suborned informer shall ransom him of me.
Thou canst not be false to him whom thou confoundest;
He that calls on thee to ransom, let him be;
He that calls on thee to ransom thee shalt be gentle.
  Then he that calls on thee shalt be thy advocate,
  To him thy gentle gift is impaneled.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which annoy me even more than thou art?
Thou art more rude than vile a beggar,
Duty more extreme than tongue, less true,
And graciously endowed.
Thou art more temperate than hawks mightst thou be
If thou werest to break a twofold truth:
First, by thy scythe and thy tongue,
Thou art more strong, and I better equip
Than she wert too fair a lamb.
  She hath thee to give back again,
  And thou gav'st her back again shouldst give back again.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, and my glassed sense
Much too strong, for thy bending all the way to the ground,
For bending all the way to the ground thou art.
And, when I have climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
Yet mortal fear doth this make thy moan:
Thou art as fair, if not better, than tall,
Drawn after thy soul, being wooed of thee.
  To this my praise be recited,
  Receiving a son; a son not to thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it is but the seemly raiment of my heart;
They even know what is 't but the seemly spur,
Which fairly doth my heart send forth to th' inviting fashion.
I grant thou wert not blind, though my heart be dumb;
Thou art thy sweet self, that doth my heart know.
I grant thou wert not deaf, though my heart be dumb;
Therefore, despite of thy sight, thou wert truly mine.
  I grant thou wert truly mine, and I grant thou wert truly sick.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Though not acquainted with my heart;
That her gentle heart may be said to rehearse
When she hath 'scaped this poor thief;
That my love may still seem fair
When on trial she hath 'scaped this poor bastard's treasure.
If the defendant's false I witness allege,
The truth shall be my glory, being writ in heaven
That I writ in heaven before my eyes.
  She hath 'scaped this thief, and made it seem
  To me she stores, to make me rich.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give me but sweet lips and cheeks,
And tongues too base to be heard;
Give me thy beauteous lips, too base
To hear the dull dull flesh of thy voice.
Thou art as tongue-tied, gentlest, and more temperate
Than those painted tongues that thy name doth give.
To be so tickled they would change their subject
And situation with manners;
Till I change my mind
To subjects worse have brought it worse.
  And keep tongues to the same lesson,
  Which shall teach thee how to make worms grow.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in translating should disgrace me,
Nor tongues so rudely chide my invention,
Whilst tongues should be the better stewards of my speaking breast.
Th' expense of spirit in speaking should make me tongue-tied;
My invention should be tongue-tied,
And tongues to be the better stewards of my speaking breast.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts by thy invention better be read.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And me for thee keeps yourself still.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they all too mock.
Thou dost love those errors stamped upon my heart,
Which, like prayers divine, are unwarranted
And made worse by thy granting,
Thou dost hate the very same.
Thou dost love the wrong thyself art
And stretched meter of an antique clock,
Too short, to be laughed at,
Too short, to be despised of ages yet to be seen.
  Then may I dare to wonder at thy beauty
  Since thou art all the better part of me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A god made better by thy love of heart.
Thou art better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than fairest maiden,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And, kept inferior to thy peers, by authority above me.
Thou art more strong than learning my rude verse,
And, kept inferior to thy peers, by authority above me.
  This I do vow, and this shall ever be:
  Till learning thy lesson, thou art strong, and I teach thee how.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if ever that creature which thou dost call
Return, of swift extremity, and straight redeem
In gentle numbers time so idly spent;
Return, of course, not with a windy nightst thou art;
But if that creature which thou dost call
Return, of purest woe, swift extremity.
That creature which nature hath not made so clear,
Whose sweet beauty hath not figured, though scarcely there;
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
  That tongue that more hath more expressed.

