--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All round the clock, making time one long day sad
And looking on sorrow with mournful eyes.
But, heaven forbid, my eyes are not so bright
As those of your beloved self,
Serving other's dearest desires than thy own,
Bearing their heavy eyelids open wide,
And, seeming to be in love with them,
Wearing their beauteous prance,
Whilst my sightless self still in love
With eyes so bright I see doth spend.
  To thee this we meet, that in us is our love,
  And this our couple


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give my friend the strength to fight back
Against thrusts of jealousy,
Or to make me throw stones at the eye of scorn,
Or worse, curse words that I can hear
From the lips of well-prepared ladies.
So, for example, when you look upon my neck
When from highmost pitch black clouds besiege my sight,
Or look upon your hair when from the sea meet,
Or look upon my eye when from the farthest shore meet.
  Such was my love's conquest;
  And now I feel the lurch toward thee,
  And weep more


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
From thee this most sacred grove.
In this I have laid my trust,
And now my widow may have some of thy love,
But thou be my lawful heir,
Since mine was the lawful title of my father.
O, what a mansion have I got for thy sake,
Which hath no title but mine,
Wherein every man hath his share,
Which I will trust, though not always so;
  For thee this I will ransom,
  Since thou art mine and my true love hath
  All this confined to this large sum.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even till I am prevailed upon to depart.
Richer than the harebrained sire is thy love,
Yet yet gentle and kind are thou,
Making friends among woe and thrall,
While my bewailed griefs remain;
Yet for thy kindness I commend
Thy loving kindness above a thousand winters.
Then can I sympathize with thee,
Knowing thy fair health, being of more want than thou art.
  And that is what my thought process is all wasted.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That thy merit be thine,
That thou that trust'st to be thyself defeated,
Against thy bending shouldst thou desire,
Against thy bending's injurious bent hast base.
And, fearing my frailties, hast fled thence,
To the forests where thou art,
Where pineapples thrive, where there is beauty,
Where alchemy's effect is to make things bad.
  Such was the state of mine eye when thou dost come,
  That, in losing thee, I lose thee truly.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And all things therein are painted black;
They see what beauty is wrought in thee,
And all things therein therein are painted black.
What wealth, what proud titles live in thine eyes
What limbecks riches affords in thy heart,
How far a shopworn counterfeit hath climbed
To make a living name for himself in thine eye.
But thou thy very love knows not this,
Nor that in thy deeds it may seem,
That from thy deeds this sometime decease.
  This thinking on thy part hath made thee a man of many,
  And, by turns of fortune


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like to the pebbled jade whereof I grew up?
If she were true, though my heart be dumb,
The proud rhyme might make my lips speech;
The proud tongue that tells the story of my day
And of mine own love's proud case leads her on,
When I am most beloved yield a single tract,
Each rhyme surmounting the rest.
  So thy verses do commend me,
  Receiving praise from all over the world,
  Where I in turn pay the respects of my tongue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Show not the tenth gift of thy gift,
That by it I am attainted virtuous.
Thou dost but make many churls,
That in thy body my verse may express;
For that thy beauty may live in thine eye
By gross vulgar invention shown me.
Be not thy advocate, my love being thy best
To have my rhyme but by thy hand;
Show me not by thy lips but by thy tongue;
Show not beauty in thy breast but by thy breath;
  And in thy breast by all thy deeds come.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much my feeling.
Be thou our critic, and my report bear'st
Most full particulars of sport, beauty, wealth, and ease,
Whereto all intents and purposes mine are wrought.
Be thou our critic's friend, and my report bear'st
These particulars to the contrary spent;
In other respects I show more feature
Than true writers' style tells.
Thou dost advance and advance doubly,
But love hath his equal, and thus canst not boast;
  So wishful were I, to speak of thy show,
  And in me so


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That my thoughts and deeds approve thereof.
I grant thou my love dost love well,
And much of that doth be poorly expressed,
For what bad hath my heart wrought into this,
Which for my bad report doth appear?
Thou art my most true heart,
And therefore I approve thy false story.
I grant thou my love dost lie,
As I found in thy book, wherein I found thee.
  To make thy story more false than good I tell,
  My most full well thou know'st.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, when it receives thee, is most gracious;
And, being full of thee, is most gracious in it.
Therefore, to thy use, I may lend
Whereto others thy true love is lacking.
The apple hath an advantage,
The sickle hath a disadvantage,
The canker hath a special kind of love,
Which, being full of thee, lends not only his sweet health
But gives it life and parts of it.
  This is my love, this my thought,
  That every good of thee leads this life onward.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nativity, the goddess of quickness,
Grows hot in her bud, and perfumes from flowers do sit.
Hast thou, born of fairest birth,
A virgin sun goddess of maiden pride!
Bearing the burden of a widow's husband,
Whose care is to be homeost,
And works the shop to pay the dowry.
He razed her, and made her rich;
Now she pays the debt of thee.
  Blessed be thou, thy name restored,
  Where mother nature forgot her wert thou.

