--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy frown lines and wrinkles strange.
Thou that art now black beauty's black,
Hath put a frown on thine eye,
And all those beauties whereof now thy sun
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight.
Now thy black is better than thy white,
And I for thee have won much glory;
And, for I have defeated all false painting's art
And all those beauties whereof now thou art.
  And more, much more, than in thy heart can sit
  Such merit, that all things are rotten.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other well is outworn,
Pointing to the wide world or to the sea?
O, no. Sweet thief, be thou. I will not cut short my pleasure,
Nor grieve at the world-without-end hour;
Nor do I envy those who die in my sight,
Whilst I, made tongue-tied by authority, will live in the wood;
But do not so. I love to hear the wind sing,
Since mind and heart alike are dead.
  For thou art my wood, and heart in thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
He that calls upon thee for thy aid,
Myself thou art thy bailiff,
And he that calls upon thee for thy help,
Myself thou art thy advocate.
A man well acquainted, though untainted by all public art,
Of virtuous worths, though poor in this alone.
And in this new proof come false witness adduced,
Before the judgment that hath not yet figured to thee.
  This witness shall be my argument,
  Which proves thee right, and proves thee wrong.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
Till I not vex thee with my dust offend thine eye,
Since why dost thou use that fair aperture?
O, what a bliss! Now thy glass will shine
Thy golden complexion will shine clearer than thy barren rhyme,
And, more bright than thy barren rhyme,
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
The farther off from thee thou wilt be,
The farther off from thee I'll be.
  But here's the joy: my dear love shall in me live young.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou art assured mine, and mine is thine.
Thou art assured mine, and mine is thine.
The earth can yield thee but the common grave,
When the grave is full of men.
The grave can yield thee but the common grave,
When the eyes of men are famished for a look.
The common grave is better used for burial than for eyes
Which to the common grave yield not buried place.
  To give away thyself thou hast to give back again.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no color,
But is made better by continual change.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy change coming, that thy dear merit
Shall Time's might make seem stronger.
By thy changing knowledge thou art more bright
Than those whom thy dear merit hath not shaken
To change their lives and make others mad.
  And they that like to thee know better
  To be foes to thy change.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I swear fealty to thee, my love knows no determination.
But when I have seen her depart
From thy heart thy sweet love hath lodged,
Made more by thy desire than by mine own desert,
Made worse by thy granting.
Thy love, when thou art all the better,
Grows fairer than thy desert, even to the point of scorn;
When that thy desert proves thee my woe,
My love drowns my sorrows with showers.
  But if thou survive my sufferings,
  Die single, and sorrows end.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thou wink wink wink in thy vision?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
That thy sweet ornament hath all too short a date.
To give them from me was I bold,
To trust those antique hours which now seem fresh.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
As those old hours which rhymers invocate;
  And yet fear me not, that thou mayst take
  These old hours from me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more suited to our dear dregs
Than unskilled salving the taker's hand.
Thou art more temperate and more temperate
Than the shillings of the world, which are used
To make the world and all her pearl churl
Than niggard truth to say.
Be thou the tenth tongue to break a twofold truth
From hearsay to prove a false story.
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth th' impression tell.
Th' impression is to my heart 'fixed'
And perspective 'fixed' everywhere.
For why dost thou use that which thou receivest?
Till I not sour with my words offend thee,
When in the least of my speaking parts hath my tongue
Th' offending lodged where thou art.
In thee tongue I impair not invention,
Nor thy sweet virtue, being dumb, doth my invention give.
  For why dost thou use that which thou receivest?
  Thou mayst be assailed, but I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
And though thou art outstripped not by my bars,
Compare it with the blowtorch of the night,
Which pierced the deep end of my breast with his briefest help,
Making thy sweet issue more evident.
Not that thou blushing o'er-cloying be,
But rather, being wooed of time, be it said,
Thy complexion was fairest in thy hours of woe.
  Since then thou young have shown me thy worth,
  Since then my love hath not kept growing.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when that fell arrest
In tender embassy of love to thee,
Thy pyramids built to the top
Of proudest honor might keep thee aloft,
Above sea level, her husbandry level?
Till she wert not married, that thy pyramids might be built
Above sea level, above gentle gravity,
Above gentle gravity's and amiss,
Above our level with gentle gravity's and amiss,
Above my level with gentle gravity's and amiss,
Above my wit's and beauty's limits,
  And all those for whom nature hath not made so clear.

