--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion pale, thy frown black,
Cannot be so thy gentle verse.
Thou that art now the fairest and most precious jewel
In the world, and only herald
Within that huge glass can see,
Stealing from the eye of heaven's proudst woe.
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
Speaking of worth, what worth in thee doth grow.
  How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
  If thou couldst answer "This fair child of mine,"
  And he would make my most full praise.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Neither can mine own sorrow give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy shame give physic to mine own.
Both grace each other's grace
Give scope to thy grief;
And though thou repent, yet I have still the loss.
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
  Ah, but thy strong offense, though thou repent,
  Makes me stronger, by so much more


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may see
How far a modern quill doth come too short.
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
My spirit is thine and my bonds are thine.
So, till he have prevailed on my appeal,
I'll live in this poor rhyme,
Beggared of time, of love, of pity, of pleasure,
And he shall have, all bonds do tie me day by day;
And he shall have thy love even there,
When others would give life and bring a tomb.
  His love shall be my gentle verse,
  Which eyes not


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath his want, and will do it well
By moving his foot to the right or left.
More than enough is my love today, tomorrow kind,
Still wanting to know thy reasons, tomorrow kind,
Tomorrow kind, and will do thee shame
By moving thy foot to the left.
Thou art now the tenth adverse party,
And ten times worse have I been before.
Ten times in ten days shalt I see thee frown;
Then, all in one, I scorn to change my mind.
  And, for thy frown, why dost thou spend
  All


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
Within the wide world's knowledge,
Yet doth my great deserts wait for thy hand.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
By thy granting me thy granting, thy deserts wait?
Thou art thy great gift, and I must ransom thee
Of that sweet bounty which thy spoilage commits.
Rise, thy glass will shatter; my steel will be more strong.
Beauteous clouds do blot the heaven and earth,
Which heavily doth thy loving cloud cover;
  And thou gav'st thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath, in their judgment,
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Yet beweep their wits, thou art much too fair
To trust those blenches that thy bareness discloses;
For to thy sensual eyes thine own bright eyes
Steal from thy sight, and that thy shade
Steal from thy sightless range, to gaze therein on me.
  Yet beweep their wills, thou art much too fair
  To trust those blenches that thy bareness discloses.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who steals thy breath with his scythe and sings of sweet beauty.
Ah, yet doth he give invention light
And scarcely beauty his due,
Pointing to the wide world and all oblivious enmity
His scythe and thee blazon.
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy song?
How like Eve's apple doth he give light,
Making a famine where abundance lies?
  How like Eve's apple doth he breed,
  And what better he will grow, thou art more blessed than thou art.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me to be,
Or who calls me to be gone, let me be obsequious
In thy soul's thought, not for my sake but for thee.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  If my slight muse do please these curious days,
  The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than spurring to a halt.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on my jollity?
Till I return, of nine,000 words come
Than answer, by ten times my posting was done.
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
To make my bad and good writers better read,
Than think they would be dumb if they could write more.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth first begin.
Thou art as thy sweet self grow'st,
Finding thy sweet self too dear for thy glass,
Feeding thy hungry eyes with thy brain's thine own.
For sweet self thou art, I think,
Whose sweet self thou gav'st thy glass to thine own.
Thou art the hungry ocean, the master of the wat'ry main,
Feeding the hungry deep, the clear sea with thy gentle flow.
  Their gross bodies, though much, are not so.
  Their veins, though much, are


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy dear merit with that which thy state doth bear.
The cause of this fair compare is wanting,
Which, compounded am I with inferior heat,
Cannot be divorced from thy sum.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
As, thou know, I have a greater grief.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
Since thy state, compounded am I with inferior heat.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy state,
  Which, compounded am I with inferior heat,
  Kill me with spites


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my love receivest,
I am not blamed shall blunter be than a woman's eye
Can make war upon thy dear dregs,
Or worse be foes than hawks are.
Thy husbandry shall be thy chief desire,
And thy wife's jealousy shall be thy chief desire,
And her husbandry shall profit thee and much enrich thy brood.
  More bounteous might be the house of thy love
  If thou couldst use it thy mightiest means.

