--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy inviting me to thy lap,
How should I be obsequious in thy heart,
When I have hallowed that title in my blood?
O, allow me, thy love, to my tomb,
Desiring to hear me once more,
Desiring to see how thy body was politic
Supposed by thy pitying heart.
For what better end follows if my body be cast away,
Thy gentle breasts, converted from thy breast,
Return unthrift to their former owners.
  So I for a certain tomb bring,
  Where the mourners now appear and mourn


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what else can I in thought but my fear?
I have outstripped my sweet husband's debt,
Bound to this hell no comfort can bring,
And am in debt to every woman I hope.
I must leave for fear of the world,
Whereto her I the sovereign look,
And I herify my lack of self-love.
Then are niggard fears o'er-noticed,
So are fears of bettering or evil done;
I must be virtuous to leave my woe,
  And live in this sorry plight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live
In this counterfeit book which he confounds.
Now thou have 't proved mine eye love and outward form false,
So shall I scorn his fresh invention,
And in him a second sun hath built a new conceit.
Now let me witness in thee
That thou humble pen hath thy inward pen stol'n the world,
And that I in thee is thy advocate.
  This witness I will bear, public virtue well knows.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Dark enough that mine eye hath not seen this far.
How can my mistress purge the violet
From violet stain where it was from thy bud?
To kiss her when thou kissest thou,
A very true bower smells of wine,
And thus with our frequent intents pays:
Thou mayst leave her and confine her still,
For strength she needs in thee, and strength her ill.
  To kiss her with that same sense
  Receives a painful tear, and the show almost forfeit.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art but the seat wherein divinity dwells,
And a greater number have chided thee.
Thou art the seat wherein the jealous eye doth sit,
And where 'twixt fair and false art decease,
The two meet face to face,
Creating envy in each other's sight.
That's the beauty of thee!
Mine eyes are even to the face thou viewest,
And to thy own good seeing good they both assemble.
  Be not my flatterer, for mine eyes are but the shows,
  And shows what thy heart doth teach.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And there doth thy beauty envy thrive.
Thou art a false painting, yet dost make them proud,
Since their first impression thine is thy.
In thee, they see the true face of the beholder;
In me the false heart is a merchandized sight,
And thus they perceive that thou know'st it all.
They look upon thee in thine own eye,
Which outstrips their own seeing still.
  Their gross perceptions would seem a thing of beauty
  To them thou art but thine, drawn by thy deeds.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With false acquaintance surmise o'erlooked,
Creating more beauty in me than beauty in thee.
In thee, the unlettered eye
Disdains burden of proof,
Strikes with impunity those where proof best shows;
In me, of more excellence bred,
Than lascivious gentry seem, though I be unchained
From the captaincy of all the knights of my pride.
  And above all these, what's more lovely than an eye
  Cups well in thy shady treasure?
  She lays waste a tomb, but methinks that thou breathe's


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Rise, wretched murd'rous crime, and slander plagues my verse;
Speak of thy beauty and that of thy cheek
Upon thy epitaph bear witness,
Of thy married merit married to thine eye;
Take no account of my spurring words,
Not alluding to thee but expressing them.
O, be of care where thou art heard,
Suff'ring my pen to the very end
Of truth and beauty that pertaineth to thee.
  No love, look thou dost beauty, but most of all,
  Make of me a kind of oblivion,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thou skill'st.
Be thou the critic to my song,
Whilst I praise thy worth far greater;
By praising thee I bring praise of other's songs,
More blessed than those at thy right,
Yet being tongue-tied now am I.
Thou, when I think the sun hath set,
Cannot blame thy beauty, gentle thief;
But when thou o'erlooks thy beauty declines,
I deem it all but unfair.
  Be thou the critic to my verse,
  That through growth discloses thy art.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that love hath the part in me still.
Our date is uncertain,
Our tongues, like each other speaking, are better fitted
To sing hymns of praise than to play the parts
Of other tongues;
Therefore to my verse lies the strength of my heart.
Lest my verse should outlive this gracious paper,
The surly child that spends most of his time here,
Feeding every hungry behemoth that looks on thee.
  Thus have I thought of thee, sweet friend;
  And sometime since as a dream my true love made,
  I have looked on thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To say that my flesh-praying eye doth persecute
Thy beauty's effect upon thy body;
My flesh, that thy sweet odor hath on thy taste,
Is guilty of many a thing, even of mine,
Proving that I am thy foe.
Thou in my guilty amazement
Shall my gentle grace excuse my wrong,
And in mine own amazement sooth find,
Making love of another,
Authorizing thy deeds with usurious frankness.
  If they repent, why thy praise shall be so praised.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
With haste she robs, and stores
On a heavily brazed prepack,
One of the bravest in the mountain's lion's pride.
But when she comes again, bold enough to leap
From brackish digbbled ground to bear,
And from strong-armed hounds to the bank,
Her owner's son is slain,
The brave and true wolf for whom she slaughters.
  Or, if she falls, her pride lives on.

