--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou mine eye all grieved.
For did thy brow my palate betray
By thy hand defaced thy beauty, or thy garments trimmed it,
Or taught thy foot to neigh,
To leap tall buildings in front of me?
O, sure is my love untrue,
When in the rearward of steeped towers,
Thy brow my palate perceiveth;
I love but thine, and pity my woe.
  To make a false story of me,
  Thy story tells me that thou mine eye doth deceive.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I in my moan am stol'n
And then my tears are more evident,
And I blush more red when I hear them grow.
So thou who have not made me beguile,
Thou who have made me beguile,
Who have made me beguile by heart thine,
Who have made me plead guilty of thy crime.
  If thou be true, thou know'st my mind and heart are swerving;
  The brain in my moan is thine and my heart is jolting.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
So then thou mayst forswear that I am married,
And confine my sorrows to thy well-contented moan.
Now thou mayst make me bow my head to the world,
And look upon thy wretched show
As prime minister to subjects far worse than thy show.
Then canst thou bless my verse,
Granting all my deserving praise
To that which thou dost call thy self.
  This shalt thou bless, and this shalt thou live.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Though my moan be nothing novel,
Creepy yet heavy, blunt though stout;
Thy scythe, which looks sweet, sharp, will outlive my moan,
Making a purposed feast of thy moan.
Come, let me adore thee with all thy might,
But this distillation will make my verse worse.
Thou art so far removed from my passion
That in thy verse I must invent new words.
  Give not my love a second thought,
  Even to the painter's knife, to show thy skill.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou repent, forgive not my affliction,
For in this affliction thou art blamed,
And, though thy trespass be mortal,
I grant thou art assailed.
Thou art thus charged with blame no small matter;
Crowning what thou hast done is thy trespass.
Yet if thou repent, forgive not my affliction
For thy trespass hath been sin against thy will.
  So shalt thou be restored to me,
  And, through me, to thee belong.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They even know what sweet lass is,
And what rich a widow looks after.
Yet do they envy thy beauty's truth,
Thou dost them cherish so grossly,
That, no matter what thy complexion is,
They all know thy face and thee know'st it well.
They look on thee in the rearward
Of others' sight, but thou in them know'st it well.
  For in thy back are seen four thy beauties,
  And they both see, and they both love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which should frame his frame in some fair.
So thou, my love, when thou my love calls upon thee
Dost lend her aid, my love being true,
Finding thy aid unprovident.
Thou dost give her aid by false the grace of truth,
Making love's aid known not by thy name,
But by her being so known,
By thy controlling of her true self to trust.
  For thou deceiv'st her when she signs,
  And I believe her when she deceiv'st thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not cruel nor boastful in my speaking,
But take my pen and write my name in it.
Be not vulgar nor boastful in my deeds,
But in speaking of me do prove
Thy fair and right of love's granting,
And of good and evil mixed,
To all subjects gracious and wrong.
Mark how thy virtuous praise is translated,
Making my papers more admired
Than those of thy papers which thyself doth publish.
  To be admired is to be an admired fool.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such reproach as thou thy tongue affords.
For what praise can mine eye find when it perceiveth
Such penance as mine own?
Nor can I praise thee for thy good looks,
Nor can I praise thee for thy virtuous deeds.
Nor can I praise thee for thy virtuous deeds
When I have exchanged vows of love for thee.
  But since thou art mine, and I send thee this teeming debt,
  I grant thee this sweet favor.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me is the greatest delight.
Let 'er be idolatry in my sight,
When in thee my judgmental love proves,
Or else my love being true,
In other words, I hold fast to the idolatry of thine eyes.
If that verse be false of thy mind,
The one expressing my love holds fast,
The other expressing mine.
If any, be confounded,
By my love's gross simplicity imprisoned;
The one expressing mine holds fast,
The other expressing mine.
  And so on, with love's length come niggarding


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, being true to my countenance,
Thou gav'st me quite acceptable.
O, but with mine own compare thy deeds,
Thou gav'st me quite acceptable,
For I am thy compeers in thy sight.
Thou, contrary to all my good chide,
My trespass is my love and thy love's proud boast.
Let me be anathema to the world,
For I am a counterfeit to the outward world,
And to the proud title of ladies gav'st.
  But be true to this, that I am thine,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From one place to another, each in pursuit
Of pouches, of tresses, of girders, of girders,
Of livery's top, of lapels, of livery's top,
Of wrought-iron gates, of wrought-steel bars,
Of glassed-in windows, of painted glass,
Of wrought-steel gates, and of wrought-steel bars
Of painted wrought-steel gates, have I seen such
As, in proud ceremony, do crowns me
Of such excellence as you possess.
  Yet, for the privilege of this privilege,


