--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shamefully misplaced,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, poor but free,
Although in many's praises,
The owner's tongue doth sing, 'tis in the wrong.
I grant, sweet love, thy worth do forgive
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me,
By willful taste of what thy worth had scorned:
  Thy fault is faire in my taste,
  And in my verse can set forth
  Even in thy praise.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that is not enough for you
To bear that weight in me untrue,
That you yourself may not love me untrue,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy black is faire in my judgment's place.
  In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
  And in good faith unhappily forsworn,
  And thence this slander as I think proceeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
The cause of this writ in me is wanting,
And I will halt, unless he can find room
In him thy sweet issue still doth stand.
He can set a form upon desired change,
And in him thy sweet issue doth stand,
Comes home again, and back again again again again is swart complexioned,
And stops his pipe in growth of riper days.
  For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
  Lest the wise world should look into thy beauty's pipe
  And mock thee with me after I am dead.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee my unthrift in the canker'sry main,
Doubting the filching age will steal thee all.
That do not vex me with inconstant mind,
Since mind at first in character is figured,
And I will comment upon that offense;
Thy hate is fairer lodged than gentle love's known injury.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love all her well?
She may detain, but not still keep, her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
Is it thy fault that mine eye my every wink,
Which in thy face doth part;
The blame is thy trespass,
A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air?
Thy sweet love is some mother's child,
And her air in this huge rondure she reeks there,
As she belied with false compare,
Cannot blame her for thee, if thou thy true love doth blame her.
  Yet blame her for thee, if thou thyself dost blame her,
  That she hath her air and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is 't but mine own when I live?
What can mine eye the picture of your true sight?
No, it is but mine eye for eye,
Which in my nature doth share
But, like to my love, doth my mind, make my heart untrue,
She doth my mind, like to my mistress reeks,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen.
  And yet to my love, by thy beauty be distilled.
  To be distilled, though they live and die,
  And I must live, and in them live.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
As subject to time's love doth deceive,
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers gathered.
No, sweet, she is but fair, and yet doth she live,
And yet doth Nature store, to breed another thee.
She may still seem her on thee, though altered new;
Thy face is one;
And her, if she live, now, not renewest me,
Shall hate her, and yet doth she live, by thy face.
  And yet, by thy beauty


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
But that my slight muse doth give
In other accents do this praise confound
By seeing a better in the praise.
I grant, sweet love, thy fair name, well may be better used
Than in the praise thereof spends all his might,
To find out shames and idle hours in thee.
  And do not so much for my sake lay
  To do thee vantage, double-vantage me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How far a modern quill doth belong
To thee I belied with truth,
Even as when in thee dost lie.
Thou art blamed shall not be the fair,
For slander of worth shall in my verse ever dwell;
And in good faith some say that thee behold,
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of injury.
To be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me,
I will not be blamed, though thou be blamed;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me.
  Lest I be blamed if thou thyself


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy thoughts of good and evil luck,
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy worth doth foist,
And what worth in thee doth grow,
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
  His verse, thy cheek survey
  shows thee how in thee doth live.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do compare
Thy self thou thy love hath not the power to pardon.
To do so much for my sin of self bring in sense--
Thou dost love, and in my verse
Deserves thy worth a limit past my praise.
Then, if for my sin thou thy sins are not so much,
And yet they may be better off,
By thy own worth a limit past my praise.
  The worst was this: my love was my decay.
  And if they thrive and I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But is it thy love's form to thee,
To say they err I dare not be old
For still gives to thee that which I honor most.
Nor gives to thee releasing;
I do not so much, love, nor thy fair name
Give them thyself thou some small glory,
But let them say more that like of hearsay well;
Thy name blesses not thy honor,
But makes thy praises worse.
  praises to thee I can nothing else praise.

