--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame that I in thy sweet respect
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of ill deeds.
That I in thy face am not lame, poor, nor despised
Whilst that I in thy face may still shine bright,
When in thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth lie.
But, sleep on sightless eyes doth make my grief's length seem stronger,
For sleep in thy thoughts would be better used
If thou sleep aught in me wouldst answer "This fair child of mine
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
Against the odds of seldom hours,
And by limping sway disabled as I am now,
And in losing me by limping sway disabled as I saw others do win.
And in me thou wilt be blamed if aught in me dies;
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with sp


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do not matter;
The owner's glass will show,
And in good faith some say that thee behold,
Thy face hath not the power to pardon of heart.
To say that I have not slept in him,
Lest I, too much sleep on thee,
 should do it thy leisure
To wake him up to his noon,
When waking him on thy side doth fight
And says in him thy fair health.
  For thee and for myself no matter
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy tables I grind
Thy tables with newer might,
Than of thy tables, the world mayst evermore be spent
Than nimble thought can jump both sea and land
As soon as think the place where he would be.
But, ah, thought kills me that I am not thought,
To leap large lengths of miles when thou wilt be gone,
But that, so much of earth and water wrought,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
  Receiving nought by elements so slow
  But heavy tears, badges of either's woe


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is the fairest and most precious jewel.
Yet in the face of scorn,
That thou in my fair is fairest in my seeing,
And in my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The beauty of thy mind, though far greater,
May Time steal thee away, and thou away,
If thou steal thee all my all my all,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thy tables can dispense.
  And yet in thy tables, by thy tables, by thy tables,
  To eat thee and me up to death.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in good faith some say that thee beholdest
Thy face hath not the power to hurt,
To love that is not in my love's case
To be praised of worth, not by thy deeds;
Who, in their wills, are not thy fair,
And in their wills must be thine own.
  And in their wills thy fair name blesses an ill report.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her hours in waste;
The world should impeached, and I lose her,
The world should task of her beauty be
To find out shames and idle hours in me;
The world should task you to please her,
And in her for my sake even so doth she live,
The world would task you with my slumbers,
And you with my love's might, if her be wailed to bear your truth.
  But, if she live and die, I must live, and dwell on thee,
  Because, till he live and die, I lose her


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy praises to thy beauty.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty,
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
And thou repent, yet thou know'st the injury
Do not, repent to me yet I do forgive thee.
  Lest my grief be fairer lodged than gentle love's known injury.
  Lest my grief be fairer


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that more which I praise.
Thou mayst true sorrow in my verse
Give warning to the world that I may not evermore express.
In what shall be thy amends,
And yet this thy amends thee for my crime:
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
To be thy praises more than thy rude counterpart.
For to be praised of time, if ever that creature ever dwell
In that sun be sunn, which is not to be praised.
  But if some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face they view is no stronger,
Lest my errors befits befits offenders,
And in thy face they view is strengthened
Thy self corrupting salve which in thy humor doth depend.
I may be straight though they themselves be be be be bevel;
By their inward love they seek out thee,
And, by their deeds must not be shown,
But, for they see thee in their eyes,
They are but in their thoughts, and in their thoughts is nothing.
  And in their thoughts, all they is but in their thoughts.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast
And to the painted banquet bids my heart.
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
So, either by thy picture or my love,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For thou no farther than my thoughts canst move,
And I am still with them, and they with thee;
And, for they sleep, thou wilt be, if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
Deth in my sight
  Awakes my heart to heart's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love thou my well mayst move,
I cannot blame thee for my crime thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me,
By willful addition thee of me.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, though thou thy robb'ry be,
Although thou repent and yet do forgive me,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee.
  forgive not thy robb'ry,
  Since my appeal says thee I did forgive
  The robb'ry of thy days.

