--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost hate me, and they that hate me,
Knowing thy heart doth steal thy breath;
They would not dull me with dull flesh,
Since, ah, I could breath their fury;
Thou art much clearer than they that speak.
I have seen thee frowning on blacks;
And they that view thee frown more strongly
Thy beauteous eyes, graced with thy scorn,
Thy lusty cheeks, graced with thy hate's stain.
  Theirs were gentle wrinkles that thy love sheds,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a greater worth with trust?
Is it enough that your friend hath left behind
To play the tyrants to constancy,
Or me to trust him as your true friend?
O, if you are true to love him but in the least so,
Then what's so blessed-fair that fears me most?
He is my all the world, and I must strive
To know your all the rest.
  Then learning to trust him, I'll vow debate
  Where I think others should look strange.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are not shaken.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Incertainties now seem to me,
Since then he hath no breath, no heart, no cloak,
And canker lives in sweetest bud.
Now with this my confession is compiled,
A true account of my life,
Describing my defects, not of him deceiving.
  Then others for the breath of words respect,
  Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since, spite of thee, I'll live in thy desire,
And take thou my oblivion.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy oblivion compounded with mine own desert,
Which shall be my revenge, not mine, being poisoned;
For what acceptable audit can mine own desert bring
To clear the way for thy desert?
Beauteous, to thy sensual pleasure add the unpleasant shame of being absent,
And me most guilty shalt be.
  To be so tickled they would change their state with kings,
  And me most guilty shalt be.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy fair gift confounded,
Finding thy false to trust; so art I,
Attending thy walks, not knowing thy gait,
Sleeping thy walks with thy mind,
Making thy body a living bait
For bait thou art. I love to hear thee speak,
But that thy sweet voice should best convey it
To thy part, not to thy lips.
  Till then thou wert not shaken,
  I hope thou wert not shaken by any dull flesh.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it is in thy bending all the way.
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
Yet let that purposed which thou bestow'st
Beggared of thy sweet self thou mine own sweet self dost deceive.
By all outward signs of thee thy image live;
And, for they see but what thy deeds prove,
They see but what thy deeds prove thee.
  Theirs for thy sightless eyes thou gav'st,
  And their for thy soul they see;
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow;
That her glass shows me not as fair
As those jacks that hounds her to the ground;
That her large bosoms fits well with my heart
To kiss the tender inward of my heart;
That her soft cheek might well be fitted
To my purpose, that her proud bosoms fits well
To kiss the tender inward of my heart.
  She may be gagged, though I swear it not.
  For that same swear I love her,
  And her breasts should bear it.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
That thy unkindness discloses thy estimate.
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
That thy unkindness discloses thy estimate.
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
That thy unkindness lays my name where I am supposed?
Thou art all my and dost lie.
And therefore my name be buried where my body is
And live no more to shame nor me nor thee nor thou.
  Thou buried wherein my spirit is
  And live no more to disgrace nor me nor thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in translating should make my heart writ,
Beggared of more than thy praise could lend.
Th' expense of spirit in knowing what thou dost print,
Which shall be thy most profound argument.
  For why dost thou spend Time on my worthless song,
  To make me tongue-tied speaking of thy praises?
  Till then, not for my sake dumb,
  But to give full growth to thy music.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that their thought is better than theirs.
Thou art thy enemy, my love being well esteemed.
I grant thou art;
My heart doth plead that thou art.
A thousand errors hath my heart committed,
Three thousand errors hath my heart imprisoned.
Thou art a thief, my love being rife.
A thousand robberies hath my heart slain,
And my love's riches all wrong.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well well stands,
  Kill me with spites, but with thy hate shallst take my life.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy dear merit with that of others,
That thou among us hath a part,
Though our state, which doth willfully lie,
Is thine own. All men make faults, and I in thee.
Thou canst not love be so gracious,
As I in thee begrudgingly bow,
Beggared of thyself thy might, to correct correction.
Thou canst not acquaintance me with false compare,
Since thou art thy acquaintance.
  And I cannot forbid thee one, though thou art so.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
But, as she walks on, she wanders
Beyond all repair, even to the edge of doom.
And thou, to thy sweet self too cruel,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defense
Can make defense of thy sweet self seem strong.
  And nothing 'gainst Time can make defense think;
  So thy sweet self too cruel shall be.

