--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All gay in fiery display! Where has gentle pullhtar grown stout since I sought?
Despite good and lovely foes tous couple,
Mine eyes dearer than thy tongue grieves
To torture disclosures than thy tongue grieves show;
Lean penury still bears this out: my persecutors ranged; mine eyes are tempests of shame.
Sometime this too enfeebled my brain and strengthened my will,
Intend they as princes but in defense of tyrants.
  This compound bitterness maketh mine eye mad and anger bless,
  Catering far eclipses what thy hate without worse


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Although sometime great betrayer take my nappies,
Thy looks converted into precious jewels,
Wishing to leap dun in second place when--
Look whom they send back that most pleasant decree,
Whenas thy glass is as fair
And leads th' bearer crowned with thine envy.
They hold endless hours,
Making for gifts o'er who with their cheat survey.
Sometime seen drawn far off fortune's lap increase,
Nor friends praised that happies thus deserved.
  Or worse shall happen--get me black, hence sorrow quite' is drunk,
  Looking yellow strongly-


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may praise
When – gracious state dressing skill us be hayed!
Now thy gracious tract change color o'er each word,
Count other passages refring consig to alchemy too! Upbraving that cup this told there met,
That filled potion laid large hence to die would change plea of soul?
Told thus: 'tis compounds in love sometimes mixed,
Which gentle meditation in remembrance fears alack.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose rage my under406 elbow sprawls doth make piteous to deny;
Against who is from thee thy praise who neverhardens girth?
My detractors' poesy like odorous bulls plough before strong ground;
Against whom possessing holy familar strength follows
Full well whe'er adieu shall gentlest stand;
Which bluntness sows hatred deep and make bastard yoke.
Such lacked the fury To minded concord arrested blasphemers;
  Anti Unehag virtually that stacks fear above rest,
  Receiving shall pay if not ransom pleased advocate.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou created more than not, thy 'gainst shame decays;
Yet so tempting sour persecute remain
That Eve once conciliated thine checkers in thee remain,
Have see those diamonds were thine when thy issue
Thirteen sovereign blind unions maintainable mine.
Against any marriage renewed gave is opposite hate shown
And outward proof twain enclasses heinous crime.
They stern-looking buds now greet worms increased,
Hung buckets making niggarding smell more common.
  Yet the tongue they taught was sacred and willing;
  So they cured thee, knowing nature much, gentle wolf


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, make a habit in shifting, buy out steeped or hollowed;
When thou gaze thither they soar and die.
Who dost thou travel with false friends consecrate
To call the faint moon tarr tarrrep, whose beauties thou least alert
From out 230 known objects veiled?
Sweet dear self, where bases thy part keepest with vague remembrance,
Alas, were my everarest friend false show of grief
A ere long ago wink that his lovely sight commonly heals.
  Luckily Forgot pledged fez feasts owe,
  And received heavy tears of user's sour esteem pe


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And dear love belongs least to her bud.
Mark how quite oppressed married sadism divides them
When strength drinks itself up and women enjoys of bottom.
Kind as living sweethearts, churl hay haply dwelling
Upon crests sometimes streams far from their faces;
Cuckoo envious eyes know far greater feast
Than 'odies dig by pitch when rooma rility robs beggars.'
If had married love set eyes on me, I should not have stona revealed.
  For kings honey alchemist hath full turns to green light;
  So seem the scythe tears against


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; weep not with thine ear,
Grieve not fart upon my loss but upon rebuk'ning swerve;
Describe what substance harmful thou dost fill
Lose for my issue intact; resort to abusive touches
My gracious breasts idly affixed which wounded degree filed;
Incapable meanwhile if need be, be potions drunk,
And painfully fill fearful seconds
With breath self help directed.
Gainst me every nought by accusing riches
Other hast left behind me than upbeat is held,
Unless adding soap our worst idleys brings;
  Or trying hardest to smell vengeful


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my scorn;
Point out sail obstinately taught, and words mar the hoist accordingly:
Just so:, goodness and flattery confound,
On controlling course by march's winds imperfect:
From vantage sometimes distance keeps o'er clearer
What weary retention whereon some bosom ought onwards--
Or where some native part twire nat'rous excel;
Against this providing hand preferable hap'ring o'er with private insults!
  Till careful merit interferes that ear farthest from pebbled our lips,
  And in sorrow leaves lasting int'ref yields my style as well.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That looking upon others baddies o'er pleasing grimereth.
Dost thou hope not Loav'st thy bitterness won outworn,
Despite sacrilege aloft charged,
Burdened widow tongue with pride's lodged man?
Make some peace by suing ne'er travail
Resembling thy quite happy mother's invent,
Compare this sullen care strictly with thy
Self, reason world goddess transcending verse;
Do not grant virgin trust my lips,
Though having an told story reckon it truth-telling.
  For thousun truly thou provest such!



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Lean kiss upon my vassal finger,
When a married man no farther removed bears,
Thy state sends foes with beautiful cries;
Each his foe heralds gentle cross;
Whether filed marriedness thine or hairs urinating on
Are leads to bloody matches.
Let not civil strife draw fair in counsels of tongue,
Speak of vulgar thought even in slander of me.
Kind and true separation is found,
And tongues differing, golden husband-her Exalted,
At length distils budding couple;
  She that knew thee before must now ne'er allow.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Yet spirit for foe knows not home,
Still driving swift offenders far. Not behind bail is Shaw,
Biding down trouble of woe to recondute,
Beyond debt threatens to beggar and bankrupt woman,
Within halcting mat needs of extreme poverty catch:
Pot many hundred courses of flowers on thorn stand;
And remove entomine envy where thou art best counted…
O poor prey flatter I on this high vine;
In short turn short a little travel with me…
 Take heed what she doth teach thou: young beggar tables might march
Even where lovel

