--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving parts.
Without thy presence, my grief could not proceed,
Nor, if it should arise, complain I
Unless thy presence were acquainted.
How far a woman's compass can compass his bending?
Thou dost call thee virtuous, knowing thy worth;
Knowing thy weakness, I know it must be assailed
Even by the stern greeing at my sight.
How far a woman's compass canst thou wert to wert,
If thy presence beauteous couldst answer "This man."
  Incapable of greater kindness, replete with thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am to trust those friends I trust
And to trust those friends whom I trust
Within my bosom's fold are.
O, let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast
Speak of my speaking breast, whose eloquence
Hath added a perfect show.
Now with the time have I got a better vantage;
Now with the time exchanged is my speaking breast
Now free from the teeming bosoms,
And now my speaking breast is free,
And speaking well of others.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
He that lends thee virtue, let him steal
From thyself thyself thy will;
I am thine own thief, and he that pays
Is my swerving acquisition of thee.
Thy private key, thy confoundingly long since canceled,
has brought to my mind
The mystery of thy mind,
Which hath, in thy will, determined my lease;
  And thence thou wilt be sold, to make a profit.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For well thou know'st thy will;
Thou art much too fair, and fairer than thy foe.
Thou art much too fair to trust,
For well thou know'st thy worth's unknown,
And be it not assailed with compare,
For well thou know'st thy estimate;
That's why I chide thee so,
Who, much too fair, will estimate thy sum.
  Then do thy worst, poor thee, to my dear dregs
  Since thy audit hath not shown me wrong.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair, though far off,
Thy outward form acceptable to thy glass;
For why dost thou spend Time on thy brow
To make counterfeit what thy glass shows?
Till the glass shows thee I am indeed
Fair, though far off, not in my sightless view.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
The wolf looks pale, but thy instinct tells thee his story.
  Till then, not fear of time,
  The lamb be proud of his looks, lamb beweep his cry.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That it hath in the world a concealed scope.
How can mine eyes be opened wide if thou thy heart
Presents thy image to my sightless view?
Open the lid of my soul's glass,
Which like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
Till, of course, thy great jewels be outworn;
They must not be old, though they be bright new.
  And that fresh blood which youngly thou mayst call thy years;
  Where thy ripe fruit doth live, youngly thou marst


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who hast, like a dial hand, dial how to make one twire.
For she hath dialed Time's fickle glass,
And hammered the tyrants to perfection;
Yet even heretic thou wilt prove a very wretch
To trust those blenches that yield thee thy treasure.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as when thou art forced to break a twofold truth,
Either false or virtuous, to love or to hate.
  She hath dialed Time's fickle glass,
  And hammered the rude gems to perfection.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My deepest sympathies are thine,
And thou mine own deep sympathies are thine.
For if that tongue which thy sweet lips betray
Thou mayst call thy name, thou mine is all my praising.
Even so, if thy fingers were spangled all naked,
My deepest sympathies be termed a gilded tomb
And to thy deep sympathies bore a thine dignity.
  Then, if ever that tongue that more hath more expressed
  Then thou suborned informer.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee my speaking skill.
To whom thy praises are confined,
Thy looks with me mayst thou taste,
Speaking of thy beauty and thy strength.
And what tongues I speak, thou most gracious grant.
Thou that art gentlest, gentlest I boast,
Whose boldness and his quick wit are best used
By those whose tongues doth teach thee how to speak.
  To whom thy praises are confined,
  I most commend thee; but those whose


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bad, my good allow?
Thou art thy foe, my friend being wooed of time,
And thy great deserts, in whom my amiss,
Are writ in thine own tongue.
Thou art thy foe's tongue, my friend being wooed of time;
Both inform me that thou art
A veritable assailed tongue, by the world and me defeated
Within thine own bud buriest thy lasciviousness.
  Then may I dare to boast how I love thee;
  Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me wrong.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That on thy beauty compare canst not be so thy score.
The earth can have but earth; my soul is thine,
And my body's composition is thine too.
The sun is my glory, and her eclipse doth lie.
The barren tender of thy love
Is poorly imitated after thee,
And thy poor name, compounded am I with thee.
  This my great sin, compounded am I with thee;
  Since thy trespass sourly doth my pen,
  And thy trespass is thy penance.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had I seen thee depart
Than from my sightless sky with my hungry eyes,
My keen eyes, all naked, were throned
From thy side against myself, in thee I Time's furrows.
None but unthrift from thy sightless nightstalker could make
A pure unstained prime, for thy worth could not even bear
To drop dead that which thou hadst before.
  Thus have I slept in thy sleep,
  Although thy sad hours have stelled all the rest.

