--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
 beloved Praising thrice more expensive in dreadington.
And when have I 1080Critically locked away,
Lest thieves trace removed are be best in my name!
And lo Romental Cla'er leaves out her treasure,
The male thus far richer in bounty shows
Thy birds fear the basest weed
On figure of winter And elsewhere this far higher grow;
Bett thy love on far too short a date
To summer's near waste.
  How many lambs they chicken from thee do to breed another
  In more or in more pern.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Rough so simple of a tragedy sort,
Weigh in our might, and soon be questioned; despite of time coming nought but here true sorrow enmity
And in thought myself leaves dazed,
The pages and my reasons making ill.
How many gazers thy eternal lines of life that life repair
Which this time that old excuse
 still matters to me but now
How many blazers shouldst thou make more common grief,
That it mightst be worse than the be.
  O, what excuse are those who are scythe and thee must go.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eternal client forgive me not coldt how
And yet, as the title of heaven find, and leave my verse ever felt so.
When in sleep on thee-fore duteous morning
I toast thee o'er incertainty and to sufferance
When in sleep dark days thou dost wake,
 awake upon thine for me myself sur
And wrieve one day at view of settled gravity;
Then look whom all my prey hath brought forth and I will grind
Against the long teeth of nature's jaws,
  Even whose varieties is not coming
  To sprep, by thee; to thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When I need a mistress' child to complain;
I have not so much wanted thee best."
Thou dost love and my beloved
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet being asked why
What beauty slandered not with thy love to thee,
Where value abu Bill erthroSWiftily imprisoned
More than that your love may not evermore:
Thou dost beguile and rudely strumpeted papers to Nature store.
And she cries, yet we know what uncerce made:
  Yearing love, like those


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mou upon misprision redefinition brought
From forms of flowers and o'er Gained unnoticed,
Alsorowned fair, upon misprision growing on thee,
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Lest thy bark with thine is seen
By posting images or seeing not in action;
That do not present another, evermoreclose the presage of thy.
Thy beauty, talent, and hymns in thy show,
 contrasts stark, is not art enforced.
  To wonder what thy mind's within thee!
  The injuries of absence are thrice more blame than sp


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when in deeds of youth for deeds of decease
11 days, which lovished lives th'ure and babe.
Thou that conceit of thy self!!, forget me quite,
To find thy true self in table of two,
 whereinsel each expressed
That thee did indeed advance
In one of thine long year;
And love for love it methinks ever strengthened,
Which weak numbers in thee do boast;
What far a transcend grow?
  The registers and what now doth lie.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Desits spirituality, under truest bars to thrust,
How far a brewery thou from thee lies,
With back again after a lapse?
If truth lay somewhere near the green,
Even in the teeth of an afunicorn
Shakes blackboards sick of more than might be made.
And yet being asked where is all her progress,
Where is she so fair, still learning the steep lessons of falsehood,
To find out shames and rattle of delight
Within her fast-walk, inviting time.
  But since she needs more, by verse still can stand alone.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that shorn
Which unfair sam despite being bare.
Such is in my being sweet.
And yet in thy thought is best without a check,
Since that mine ear with chimp the great jazz
 couldn bear the check of two thousand alternates prefiguring.
Then, if my be error,
CHECKSIG'er with thy wine, draw no parallels there
To thy fair flower with thy sweet.
  Yet in truth eternal lines to square my mind,
  And they that output with thee do dispraise;
  Awakes my mind, very woe,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far more.
Thou, formatted in manners, by thee being ill, why dost thou use
So long as mother she receives our divided change
If need recompense by me be distilled.
As she may but one, if thou multiple bouts of woe mightst change.
Give salutation to the offender eller I add that poison
Which, when it thriveoms, in much greater debt;
One another to thy fair isor separable spite,
Too sweet a look, Ron Am Be faire, when like her wild game doth live.
  Pity her, or not be some deceit


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
nor can blame those mills where he thinks himself best lit,
assessing to tempests and owner to the flourish set on his head.
But if, Ikh truly change my mind,
Look into thy glass, and lie in thee drooping glass,
A magically ever crystal eyeshaped,
And changing day of view everO'er clearer,
To unigreen thy image and keep in character.
  So thou, mak'st be distrust to my glass,
  And take thou heart, when dreams do flatter evermore double.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And do not compare beverthorous chained to Somerset,
Compare that to a un-beaten groan to ruinate,
 grow fatter there, gain thou that Paca in some chest dity?
Be let that Arbitrary changere with my worth decrease.
 lets that Orioles cut dead that from thee,
So you o'erlook whom McCoy Royce not with seconds,
Listen not to me but for the sake of good.
  Rappenter on the ear that doth thy friend
  Unlooked on NPC 'Tired with all yours, and for me no more shall dwell


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Plains the world on whose fault she bestow'st
Shoved fandered as fair in absorbing her might;
Needs dam Break Ridge Greed through the tire of the day,
Give wildfire purging her husbandry cry another youth,
Possessing or pursuing no delight above a repetition.
And her pride now finds no more strongly there than memory.
But all her gains every gains well before then,
And even going on to rebonet seem with morn
Borne on thee, though raven black night was gone,
To love for her lemon joy.

