--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty play on their brow,
Are quite raven white; therefore to be
Thyself thy foes are gladly.
I love thee in such sort that thou dost steal
From my treasure all my happies,
And I for thy sake lay siege to myself.
I will not be subdued by thy moan,
Since all foes to me bow down in thine,
But I will be thy friend and slave to thee.
  For thee I can bring a plea to thee,
  That I may prove thee virtuous and meurer.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To say that I am wretched and want nothing more;
That is enough for my heart to moan,
On account of you wanting nothing more.
Even so my chest was full with your moan,
And then my eyes were full with yours,
And, seeing your desire, I leapt up and fell.
As you did, my breast was full with yours,
And I, being taken from you, found myself a prisoner.
  You did give me strength to leap,
  And I did jump, being full of you.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes
Can see thee frown upon this poor steal.
No matter then, love; thou mine eyes are guides
And that swift hand that calls back the gift of thee.
From hence my love's shadow my mind follows
To the stores where thou dost make thy treasure.
Then thou who art mine eye, that store where thou dost make,
In other words, thyself my decease.
  His inward love is mine, and thy inward love's place is
  In other words, mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Showing thy love to that which thou deserv'st alone.
Thou know'st, 'tis true, I have often wished thou would be thy friend,
To have our home taken from us,
By conquest of our deserts contracted.
Yet yet this wish I never had,
More than after the decease of thy father's time
The neglect of thy great love's lease.
Ah, yet thy sweet love will in spite of this be broken,
Lest our trespass should be so great
As by our becoming lords takes away all honor.
  Yet such is thy love today,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou canst not be churl thou art,
For thou art heir to the grave.
Thee have the ear that hears thee tell,
Finding that thou give'st thy ass close
To the prize of that sweet which hearsth well.
If thou live remembered not to be,
Thee will steal thy beauty and thy life;
Thee have the fear of thine and thee alone,
The worst of all is death.
  So thou be remembered to this purpose,
  Which, to be buried with thee,
  Must bear the burden of many a visage.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou convertest that to beauty's delight.
O, why, spite of thy sight,
In my meditation thou mak'st 'twixt beauty's brow and heart,
Whose skill in my verse thou dost deceive.
Excuse not thy glance, my love;
Thou that art in my verse converted,
Since thou art in my verse not deceived.
Mark how thy hand doth play the dial,
Lest thy slight example should play
In his favor.
  Thou art so strongly in my judgment made
  That I may disgrace myself and thy sight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That made up false all alone is better than imprisoned.
I believe her beloved and see her proud,
Till she takes all advantage thereof;
So I grant she hath, even for my love's sake,
A mortal fear of slander that in my verse stol'n
And bends all things in my judgment to my purpose.
I grant she hath spirits and hears voices to tell,
And for my love none but true men here tell.
  Then I grant that she knows how to mend a malady.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So do I, poor murd'rous widow,
Who in thy sweet loving blood doth pour out thine own.
O, if it be not thy gift, sorrow be my sorrow
Which brings my husband's picture to life.
Such is thy love, much greater than mine,
Which in thy inward loving deeds doth appear.
O, that thy beauty may be said to be fairer than mine;
Thou whose fair hue in thy inward loving deeds doth stain.
  This my sorrow hath no name,
  Which for thy dignity doth lie.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy merit in thy deeds graces.
Yet hate is not hatred in my heart;
It is a kind of love that in my heart
Hath strength to overturn, though not yet hath my steel broken.
It is the star to my breast,
Which like it ill looks in my heart;
And by it I am brought down to earth,
And down with myself the hungry night;
The hungry wolf having swallowed the life from thee,
The unthrift in me swerve;
  Or the fledless go and perish by thy show.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which for thy sin kills.
Thou best of wrongs I shall yet find
In thy sins and thy good deeds mixed.
If thou wilt, like me, be condemned to this hell,
A thousand groans will be my sorrows,
And I in thee in thine shall be steeled,
As if from thee a thousand rebukes will be heard.
  This we must go on, becoming acquainted,
  For although thou my trespass be twice my glory,
  All this my affliction did repair,
  And to this correction we must go.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which gives good pleasure to both thy heart and mind,
Giving a kind of welfare to both's delight;
Then love, sourly disposed towards other,
Shall be my advocate, to thrust in limits
Which Time's injurious pencil doth use.
Look what is best for the heart:
Roses are thorns, but love holds no such thing.
O, no, let them but build the garden of love
And for a vengeful bud weed keep the harvest.
  Theirs is thievish pride, and many a son
  Shall at least boast how thy beauty grew


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From maiden to babe's bosom;
At the gazelle's rear puts her firstborn,
And shows her where to breed next.
Then lays waste both husbandry and vassal pride
Of herds and ladies' lives, by confining
On private means alone,
To share the spoils of husbandry;
For 't is husbandry more blessed
Than flowers' waste which is husbandry's content.
  Or rather, so prevailed the world,
  That our thoughts, in their grossness of pride,
  Were kinder than sweet words made of self.

