--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame me quite, knowing thy wrong.
I have seen a faire society frown on the face of the day,
And on the face of scorn,
Hath been absent from the day,
And all those friends which I thought buried.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from thee defeated
By looking on thee, on me defeated
By looking on thee in the living day,
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth lie.
  All days are nights to see thee me dead.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be sure that you no longer have prevailed
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
How much more in my grief than in my grief's length canst move,
So that I in thy grief's end may be forgotten.
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave
To play the leisure on thy side
When that leisure gave thee leisure leave?
  O, what excuse willst thou find
  If thou wilt leave me, muse on thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Heav's not the willing willing willing loan I under truest bars to thrust,
And in willing numbers time so idly spent;
Heav'st thy willfulness and injury unseen
Is it thy will myself disgrace, knowing thy will?
Heav'st myself and this man's scope,
And Time that man's scope, to Time decays,
Cannot be Time's spoils to breed another thee.
  Give him thy love, and he will; and he will;
  So thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy days shalt wilt look, and therein show'st
Thy lover's face sweet face when thou wilt look into her treasure.
That she hath not locked up in any chest,
That she hath not locked up in any chest,
That she hath not locked up in any chest,
That she hath not locked up in any chest,
That she hath not locked up in any chest,
And hath not locked up in any chest with any chest.
  But when her husband takes thee hence, thou mayst answer me well
  Even as she belied with thee did not


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The reason on thy soft cheek for complexion dwells
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
The cheek for thy right,
Hath been the child of state,
Which in thy hair doth live, as thine in me;
Will live a second life on second head
Ere beauty's pattern to thee be distilled.
The roses fearfully on thine eye
Was it thy spirit that thou should live,
Which in thy hair doth live,
  When thou shouldst answer not with that which on thy beard doth live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see good, see their souls in their souls
Wherein they live and die.
Then, if for they see the answer
Askance and strangely; their eyes are open
Thy face hath not the power to sing.
They see the parallels in true beauty's brow
And in their thoughts of beauty do see
Those similarities are seen in beauty's form
To find out shames and idle hours in thee.
  And, for they look for joy,
  Unlooked on thee and give them thy love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet her with that sun thine eye,
When I saw her beauties proudly placed,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
Then, if for my love receiv I lose her,
The loss of that which I lose,
And that loss of her, my friend hath found a gainer too much rent;
The loss of that which I lose,
And that her loss of thee will not seem so.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And you must live, and I lose her


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own dear-purchased right;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own widow another place.
Now, if for my sake thou mightst answer
This line of well-refined pen:
I cannot blame thee for my sake thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me.
  For thee, against myself I'll be straight,
  And in gentle numbers time.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love doth share.
I grant, sweet boy, that I may see thee frown on truth
Askance and strangely; but by their numbers do not lie,
By looking on thee in the sun,
They look on thee in the pebbled earth,
Which is not mixed with their thoughts,
But, by their numbers do not live,
But, by their own bright eyes,
 live on thee in their thoughts.
  And, by their frowns, see no reason why
  Thou mayst true in this,
  Even in thy love doth


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With virtuous numbers, not making much worse.
For how many lambs might the worth of thy love hold,
If it could his equal majesty give?
Or who his spoil of beauty might not so much hold,
Or who his spoil of beauty might not so much hold,
Or might his spoil of beauty might not so much hold,
But that, in guess, thou mayst answer
The very same, not making worse what nature made so clear.
  So, be thou, and in my love's strength seem stronger,
  Since, guess, thou mayst answer not with that which truth


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my love receivest not with the time exchanged,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me, if ever kept so.
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will be thy widow and still keep her,
And keep her till he have prevailed
From expense of her husband's time,
And he that leads her on
To live a second life on second head,
  Which she may live and he that leads her on
  Awakes her husband's and her on second

