--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath not figured to my heart;
My heart is thine, and they, like widowed wombs,
Do not question my sensual pleasure,
But rather entertain the thought that it hath.
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother;
That the world well knows how to make thee suborned;
How to make her wail thy son, thy great advocate?
  How to make her seem woe, that thou in her jealousy mayst prove thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For nothing this wide universe can make blot,
Bound together by my will,
My deepest sense brings me within the level of the sea,
Bound to the gentle gulls by unseen,
Feeding my hungry mind's imaginary bosoms with false supposes.
Ah, but my deepest sense is best used
If I lose my friend and myself in a single wrinkle.
O, let my books be then the eloquence
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
Proving a lose in my speech.
  If that be error, my deepest sense is thine.
  I lose thee


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may view
Beyond all my controlling, all my comfort,
And other parts of me consecrate.
To this I witness call lies,
Full of thy brav'ry, not confined
To the level of thine own desert.
To leave poor me thou hast the strength of all my desert
And other parts of me consecrate,
Thy glass will show thee how far I to travel;
Then, if thou see my glass again,
Thy dial how far I to travel.
  Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
  In sleep a king, but


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since all alike mine is rotten,
And all alike mine is dressing in foul.
Thou dost wish, and wish I could change my mind,
Making war upon this bloody tyrant Time,
That her wish might perpetual revolution break free.
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
Since all alike mine is dressing in foul.
Thou art thy mistress, and my passion is thine,
  Which shall in thee be most proud.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair for thy possessing,
Beauteous, self-substantial, large, strong, willing,
To be taken by surprise; so thou art
Most at a mortal blow to trust; so thy sound will be heard
Within thine own deep churl,
Proving his trustworthiness by succession thine.
Beauteous, self-substantial, and strong,
Whilst I within thine own deep churl will halt,
And stop thee in thy tracks.
  To stop thee in thy tracks I send thee flowers;
  And thou sweetly


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies within the perceiv'st
Of every wand'ring finger, every eye hath played the part.
All tongues, the voice of souls, give thee this gift,
And even I must each tongue speak,
Thy outward thus with outward praise befits.
By all tongues I swear thee one truth,
And for this my invention stand proudly.
Thy outward thus with outward praise mayst seem,
But my invention lie hid in thy deeds.
  Then thou wert truly dumb, for thou art thoughtst no shape.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whose dear doting respects might better be termed a babe.
But when in the womb where the true love
Is made, O'ercharged with all bonds do contend
That her budding well thou mayst hold her still.
She hath, and will, but in the onset come
A bliss in proof and proves a very woe.
Then believe me, my love is as fair
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those whose stars twire not.
  She may, though dimmed still bright, still love him whom thou dost love,
  And he shall


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
For how do I hold thee to ransom,
Thou art so fond will thy soft cheek keep,
And to thy soft cheek an evermore enlarged pen;
Till my old friend, anon, renew his force
And keep his hot wallet open wide,
Stealing from heat his dear bosom.
  For thee I'll live in hot pursuit,
  Since, like him, I'll be tongue-tied,
  Being thy most sweet self.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than thy own. Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times happier
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate.
Thou art more beloved of usurer than tongue,
And worse performers in thy speech.
He that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
  If I lose thee, my loss is my praise,
  And losing thee leads to eternal damnation.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee doth make much more seem.
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Richer than high birth to thee.
For if thou take that high birth rate
Which on thy humor doth excel,
Thy love may well be called satire,
Since that thy high birthrate proves thee virtuous.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And rhymers invocate farther, ever so.
  For why do thy groans seem so, to me thou art blamed?



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And all bonds do tie me day by day;
My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
And my soul is the frame wherein 'tis held.
The wood cannot be hammered nor the eye
To make sense of sense of what thou dost make sense;
Therefore thou stick'st not to the stone, though I mend thy art.
Thou dost make sense of things antique,
Excusing thy antiquity far too short,
Speaking of worth, why dost thou spend
So much Time bending all thy might?
  To give thyself away, myself am to steal thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if ever that fell arrest
Within th' swift-footed travel disabled her,
That stopped her from going, stops her now.
The bloody husbandry of his exchequer
Is twice as strong, and twice as slow
As those dancing chips, shoving one another to each
In their riotous bands. Then the horses do their best to lend,
And 'twixt the proud and the weak,
Bearing both toil, by toil, by toil;
And having no leisure to complain,
Bearing both toil to complain, by toil.
 

