--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
Beyond all repair, all repair being made.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
They curse at thy sight, and pity me
That thou in their wills mayst bear all wrong.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And even so, thou art blamed of all offenders.
  The judgment's boldness is thine alone,
  And 'gainst myself much glory fight th' offender.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a widow's widow?
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And needy in thy heart a widow may be.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
As those whose wombs yield their due;
My bones are nothing like the tombs of the dead.
They are but tombs of my spirit,
Which used is not so much as a look;
They are but dressings of my heart,
Which in thy heart doth live, still with me.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And you must be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined.
He that calls upon thee to ransom, let him be,
And thou suborned informer mayst thy amiss.
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother;
So that the world may see my folly,
And thereby my steeled sense,
Through gates of thine own bright eyes mayst see.
When a beauteous wife and child,
Who on thy love make one twain,
Which married thoughts on thy love, thy love's effect;
  Thus have I slept in thine own bright eyes
  Which by thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath climbed the steep-up heavenly hill
To guard the virtue of thy cause.
For why dost thou then desire such a tomb
And dress it in summer's fashion,
Thy summer's bareness everywhere?
Thou art so fond will thine eyes behold,
Since thy sweet self doth use
And all things unrespected turns to dress it.
  And me as for thee shall be proud,
  Even if thou wilt be spurned, of all men's pride.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the world's fresh ornament,
Made from some wanton burden;
My body, being thy shop, is no longer than the tomb
Of thy deceased self?
Return, forget me, and straight redeem
Thou art returned again unthrift, in good faith.
Ah, but that thy glass will show thee how thy dear love is writ,
Hath been absent from thee, and hath, in good faith,
Thou of thy deceased self possessed.
  Thus shall I taste the fresh t'onday after sunset,
  Which fresh flowers thou shouldst taste, not


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for they see not the heart, but the soul
Doth part his function,
Seeking that sweet ornament which truth doth teach.
Love, thou dumb, knows how to make one twire;
Love alters not with his changes;
Love alters not with his changes,
But only with his remover to remove.
Love alters not with his hours and weeks,
By looking fresh, not changing with his quick change.
  To thy change be thy glory, to thine own.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in thee Time's furrows I behold,
Then look upon her beauty still and frown;
My deepest sense is that thou dost deceive,
Since, ah, now are dead, and my hand against thee are
Resembling strong youth in body and foot.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me to thee did give;
Yet she, all the world, must die,
  Die single, and thine alone.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Made worse by my bad speaking manners, compounded ill.
Thou art blamed shall win much glory,
For what a zealous seek
Shall thy bad words from thy tongue?
Thou art blamed shall have thy praises praised;
The tongue that to thy use speak shall o'er
Bearer thy name than my speaking breast;
And speaking well of me, I'll add some more.
By this I am am sure myself are true,
And for good thoughts o'er thy bark, speaking well of me.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And me to give


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' argument shall never seem so,
Nor my pen, which is more sharp than my eye?
Be thou the tenth wretch, ten times worse than thy pen?
Th' ten times worse have I committed been,
Th' ten times worse have I invoked thee,
Th' ten times thy worth, and thee all thy glory respectively.
In all worths our dates there have been dates,
But those dates do not quite tell,
  And even so thou hast shown me how to date.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my false love that my heart doth call truth.
To give them from me was I bold,
To trust the best of thy truth,
And they trusted thee with mine own truth;
But, sick of trust, thou hast put a limit on my freedom,
And given them from me thine own.
And, sick of trust, thou hast put a stop to my torture;
Till I yield them thine due,
And they thine due shall have thee,
  All losses are restored and sorrows end.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy jealousy with mine own desert,
And nothing that grows
Can make me any stronger, though more feeble increase.
Nor can thy argument hold me more strongly than theirs;
Nor dare I question with thy jealous thought,
Pointing farther than my sun
Can peep in thy petty jealousy;
But, for thy fair flower I compare thee to thine own desert.
Thou mayst call my spites hate from thy heart,
  And that thy graces so may be.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, as fast as light can come
From the outskirts of light, to cross the desert,
To break free of bonds of self,
Unleashed from the heart; her husbandry was a joy
To behold desert, to triumph above sea.
Then, were not men created flowers with base sap,
They would, say Nature, but flowers distilled.
  Thus, if weeds, or fowl, or coveralls,
  As fast as weeds grow.

