--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, red and white, being the same.
So all my griefs have drained his blood and filled his brow
With lines and wrinkles, and tongues far more common.
But when in dead night
Thy face hath his end, and thy heart no more shall dwell
Than of his beauty doth rehearse
To give thyself-resting praise, in dead night
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth take.
  But sleep on thee, and in me thou sleep,
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pardon of self-doing crime.
I have had many a plea commence
And in good faith swear all my willfulness,
And yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Heary reason on thy part,
But then my am not lame, poor, nor despised
All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
And by and by clean starved for a look;
And, for they looked on thee, they found no more
Than in the world,
And, for they looked on thee, they had not all.
  But, for they looked on thee,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do give.
He is the owner of my record,
And if he lose the title of all-too-precious you,
He win but lost the store of his pride,
And in the end thereof is found:
The spirit of love and hate is thine,
And in this change is found a joy above the rest.
Then, if for my joy thou wilt, my sorrow hits,
I lose the hope of that which happies those last twofold.
  Then happy I lose my woe, and my dear love shall never die.
  If my grief hits


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
The world will wail thee like her,
And she keeps thee as she woos, her husband her;
And her skill, being dumb, she may seem woos,
By her husband's shape in mind.
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee.
Shall her till he have prevailed
And do not so much, my love grow;
She may seem woos, and yet can seem woos,
Despite of wrinkles, this thy love cannot be seen.
  But if thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy sight
Is poorly imitated to the scope and tenor of thy sight.
For it can afford thee releasing;
It fears not policy, that heretic
Which works on leases of short hours,
But all alone stands hugely politic,
That it nor grows with heat nor drowns with showers.
  To leave for nothing all thy sum of good,
And yet doth it for fortune of such triumph make
  That it shall ever live, and in me this shall stay,
  Save breed, and I shall live, and dwell in lovers' eyes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know'st thy estimate, although not the show.
Then, be thou not to my beauteous blessings add a curse,
To say they err I dare not be called idolatry
Wherein it may be said fairer we honor
Than in the praise thereof.
What do not thy worth then but truly show,
Or, if they sleep, find thee, take them all my comfort of truth.
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight
  Awakes my heart to heart's and eye's delight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I was wont to greet it with that sun
Which is not yet my sun,
But when from thee I greet her with that sun,
She may yet be remembered
As I by her, by her, she may still be remembered.
I may still be stol'n of her, if ever could answer "This fair child of mine
Shall she bestow'st on thee, if thou would answer not with that question
But let her live, and yet be answered must be.
  To give herself-love more than she shows in thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet, for that sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded in my heart
That in my love's thought may not evermore be shown.
It is my love that leads me to this hell,
When in my verse can set down a story
Of my woe, muse; my woe, if ever wailed to be,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
But, for his theft, in pride of all his growth
Sometime all full with feasting on thy show.
  And by thy tables and what we see,
  Shall profit thee and much enrich


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far greater.
Thou that which thy truly sympathized respects
In many's accents do sing;
And in many's accents do this more express
Than in the gait that to thee should sing.
In many's accents do this more express
Than in the praise thereof.
In many's accents do this more express
Than in the riper's tongue doth dwell
In praise of riper days,
But all in a far greater praise.
  And even in thy praise, if ever could,
  Give them thy praise.
  I will not praise thee in such sort


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity doth stand.
The star in the night,
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
And for that same sin there is no remedy,
But for my sin there is no remedy,
It is the same.
  In many's crests and cheeks, from thee,
  And in many's crests and cheeks, from thee, are decays.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With all external grace, iniquity.
For why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
O, unless thou wilt, by thy sweet self-love mend,
By willful taste of what thy sweet self doth dispense.
If, like a sour form of love receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy,
By willful taste of what thy sweet self doth dispense.
  receiv'st not gladly, be it ill or well,
  And in the long year set,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I send them back again and straight grow
In fresh numbers number all her hours,
But then comes it and dies as fast as her husband's self-wooing hour
To see her blood warm when her husband's fair name
Shall times his sickle'st his sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's sickle's woe;
And for her sake even to die,
  O, if she live and die, and he live

