--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty in their neglect,
Hath put on white, and loving mourners be,
Crowning thy beauty's disgrace.
Yet thy appeal, all grown and fair,
Is still not enough to my grief,
Nor my woe to my sorrow's end,
To say I am so sordid
As thou shalt in our common room praise;
That, bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
As we two, one by one am mute,
Save that thy sound is mine, and mine is all the world.
  Yet my grief may seem slight


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For oft as temptation reeks in my heart,
My friend and I are put beside each other,
And each thrusts his or her into the fray,
Proceeding with the loss of both of us.
How many a time have I been absent
From your sweet love's court, where thou live'st,
Or from thy dear love's presence, where thou live'st?
O, none, none, my love is with thee;
I am with thee, and thou art with me.
  All alike have I loved, and in one respect mine is better.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
Thy beauty's beauty is in thy brow.
I grant thou art thy beauty's heir,
But let my jealousy be, and thyself I reign
In spite of thy fair complexion.
Now be thou my wife and I live alone,
Lest my jealousy should so grossly impair
The two of us be twain
That thou among us shall live in our crime.
  If that our two be twain,
  The spoil of thy beauty would be thine,
  And all the rest is doom and disgrace.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To seek after thy darling needy love,
Or to send her back again what was once paid;
Thou art more than thy worthless counterfeit
Giving back what was first paid,
Suff'ring to find another shamed after thee.
Return, thou wanderer; my verse, whose contents are found,
Is much clearer still;
Thou better to speak of me than I am,
Since here is no need of many a lie.
  Hence to the farthest west my verse lives,
  From whence my poet's stamp of fame,
  To all whom thou dost send back


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou art a fool, if thou willst believe
That this rich concord hath divested thee.
The sum of this concord is thine,
Thou art the sum of all my petty sins,
Which in this adulterate love is crowned.
If thou willst convert me, thou be converted
In a better state by that convert than me;
I will be a better state, being converted being assailed,
More sure that thou my trespass is proved,
More sure that thou thyself deceives me.
  This title, thus shall I live,
  When in


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know that thou art true, and believe it not to be decease
They read the grossest of descriptions,
And in their grossest descriptions they see things quite strange.
Thence comes it that thou gav'st thy verse to sing,
Or at the very least of thy best,
Dost thou believe them so?
"Thou dost deceive the world by thy show,"
"And the lascivious grace of thy tongue
Is enough to make the world turn her on thee,"
  And their grossest descriptions find their height;
  And their grossest descriptions make


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That under my sway she hath her jewels.
She takes delight when I swear that she is true,
And loves to see that I am but the thing I show,
That she hath the heaven's seal to trust;
So I do believe her, and I swear it to be;
Of her no other substance lies,
Nor her own self thou wilt know.
I am astonished at such large numbers of her,
When in heaven's own right she delights in so great a show.
  But what trouble hath my love troubled me most,
  The very thought that make her jealous?


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that thou mayst true speak well of me untrue,
Be of thyself so attainted in decease,
That I, being absent for a while,
Forgot upon thy brief acquaintance send
From thy house to pay the tardy respects.
O, learn how to kiss the ear,
Make ear drums with thy foot;
Hang on, learn how to tie the pencil to pen;
Make tongue lark, as thy hand doth play the pen.
  Take heed, learn how to ride a horse;
  And, to ride a horse, make a fool of manners.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immoderate disdain as thou fil'ry.
For speaking of me thus:
"Most gracious thou art," says my verse,
"an unkind thing to brag that I do worse than thou do."
So saith my mother tongue,
And her rich argument grew stronger,
Bearing both thy breast and heart,
As if by some instinct she had figured it.
"O, what a wretched shame! All that I did for thee
That in thy breast I should brag of thy rank."
Then my mother tongue to a more perfect state
Was devised to persuade the world


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That every tongue o'erwriteth this in thee.
For what tongue hath more eloquence replete his verse,
Thine own self so churls out to expound,
Feeding the world's most vulgar rhetoric,
Serving the filching world with his most profane scythe?
Let us therefore, in our mutual love,
Since tongue and eye alike bear this out,
Proving each another's art and that art so corrupt.
  O, sure I am the wits of the world,
  And tongue to his vulgar scythe my praise delivers.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, true to thy glory, doth boast of thy goodness.
Not so, poor me, but yet thou with thy love find,
Not yet thy equal, being mine, being all the world,
Being all the world doth advantage over me.
O, what a bliss is that findsest my every blot!
My bad is that I can scarcely love thee,
And so can those that care for me abuse;
They look upon thee and frown upon me,
And in me they compare;
  And then they may say "This poor sin hath my every blot."


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With one of her swift-footed quills.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And his gold complexion doth appear dully,
Which in golden bars doth stand the frame of beauty.
Yet thou, beloved of all hearts, thy love's fair
Hath such fair aspect to thine own.
Thus thy fair imperfection hath my seat in scorn,
Which, myself included, hath put a curse on me.
  This, being untrue to myself,
  Makes me a false witness against myself.

