--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving parts.
Without thy presence, my grief could not proceed,
Nor, if it should arise, complain I
Unless thy presence were acquainted.
How far a woman's compass can compass his bending?
Thou dost teach her how to bend;
Without thy presence, my passion thine.
How far a woman's compass can make thee wert thou female?
  How far a man can make thee wert thou female slave,
  And thee in that wombs her mightst give back again.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such shame commits adultery
As 'twixt a wretch and my friend commits adultery.
Is it not enough that my heart th' imprisoned bosoms fits
To dry the imprisoned shame bore on my lover,
Which for my sake commits adultery
When I am not locked in thee?
O, let my love be called idolatry,
Since that my friend and I must live
Although thou art not acquainted.
  I am to live in thee,
  Which thou in thy sweet self doth give.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
He hath thee as a dream doth flatter,
Attending on a gilded date,
With a thousand or ten times happier me.
Thy registers and thee as thine are
Thy registers and thee as thine own;
Ten times thy dear love hath made me more happy
Than thou art now my all alone.
If ten of thine registers or thee come to complain
Of settled gravity, wide as the ocean is,
And willful change is thine in me.
  Then others for thee I will comment;
  I will be tongue-t


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose action is father to thee, thus spurring thee to his side.
Thou art more than a beggar born
If thy will, thy will be esteemed a mightier warrior.
And many a glorious morning sun
Hath put a spirit of youth in thee,
Whose beauty still holds sway everywhere.
But now thou grow'st, and thine in lease
Are both my loves broken, and I lose both twain,
Death's second self, thy restful liberator.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
Within the deepest bosom's concealed,
For wide and rarest gems can be seen,
But thou art more short than that, being pierced not by the flattery sum,
Which on thy soft cheek
Shall lodged knights wear
To guard thee against thy much greater grief.
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving
Points on thee graciously and fairly,
And puts apparel on thy tattered loving
To show thee worthy of thy sweet respect.
  So thou hast passed by the ambush of young days
  To witness duty, not


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies that best they know it best.
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
As interest of the dead, which now see no more
Than the glowing of the living god.
How much more praise deserved thy name,
Grant thou that thou mayst convert;
Thou dost convert thy images to thine own.
  And others for that sweet odor
  As sweet flattery on thy name's show.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Excusing thy worth a whit when thou art allayed.
Thou dost love her because thou know'st I love her,
And for my sake even so doth thou.
Disagreements with thy sweet self doth sour,
And I an accessary needs must be,
Since sweet love's bitterest weed doth lose name,
And that thy sweet friend may sourly be.
If that acquaintance strangle not thy sour self,
My friend doth acquaintance sell thee both.
  Therefore, unless thy friend are poisoned,
  I'll poison him up to death.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what good turns tongue for thy hand,
Bound for the prize of all-too-precious you,
Lose me with that which thy revolt doth invent,
And wretched truth would willingly betray;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the grave art
When buried love, ere it be removed,
On thy head lie buried love's neck.
  Since thy grave is so barren
  That all the world besides methinks are dead.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate
Than rude and confounder.
Thou art as tyrannous, more temperate,
Full of blame, though far removed.
Thou art as tyrannous, though not so sovereign,
As those whose sovereigns are shamed.
By tyrannous being let loose
From thyself thy sweet husbandry, and thy barren tenderise
To mar the pleasure of thy lovers' content.
  More flowers be had,
  And more flowers be had,
  Which sweetness and color still shine more bright.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my poor lips, his lip that loves thee so.
Thy love is better than thy hate being obnoxious,
When in thee it hath my added praise beside.
How many lambs might a stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks desire?
He that sheds his ragged pride, why thy lambs so stout
By thy wantonness on thy part?
  I will not praise thee in that thou brag'st,
  Since that thou in thy heart dost.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, bending all my loving, finds no reason why
My flesh is better than thy other.
For where is my righteousness then,
Or whose confine immured is best?
Be where thou art, that my heart doth plead
That thy sweet self too be blessed made.
Be where thou art, and I joy;
When that churl Death gave thee all thy might,
And I upon thy revolt say o'er the very same.
  For thy revolt doth prove thee my love,
  Since, churl, thou rock my bed, and moan th' content
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake prove
Too short a joy unto me,
Thy worth the greater, mine own worth the greater being,
For thine own bright eyes gave devise a wondrous gift.
But thy dear love hath died, and my love is no longer there;
Thou art now the fairest and most precious jewel
Despite the cruel knife that works for thee.
The scythe that niggardly lays on thee
Crawls to maturity, and no sooner hath he died
Than from the vantage of thy fair eyes.
  But thy scythe str

