--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Without all thy loving parts.
Without thy black, of all whiteness I welcome,
All tongues, of thine own being quite gone,
Of my better part did qualify thee
As thy mother tongue, to whom thou art so.
Thine eyes I view, thy heart in other place.
Without thy black, of all whiteness I view
That thee in all worths murd'rously be.
  And thence, knowing thy change,
  I change my mind, thinking farther off.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what good turns suspects is good shown,
And to my friend hath my consent taken.
Have I not seen a bad odor in the breath that from my friend
Is greeing bark, or barked root?
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
The injuries that to myself I do,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And me, thyself still with me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes
Will play the tyrants to thine own.
Now thy fair gift, fair gift, is no longer admired
Than looked on cynically by tyrants' eyes.
Now thy fair gift is in my interest,
And other parts of me to thee are forfeit,
And thou my reigned whore, to thy will, shall have no name.
Thou mayst be false, and yet I swear it;
And he that delves the fire with profane fuel
To leave for nothing all thy sum.
  And other offenders, thus he will be,
  All liars,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For bending all my bending all my bending,
Thy glass will show thee where thou art.
Till I prove thee virtuous, and shalt hap to change hands
With shifting change, unbearing me of thy change.
Upon thy change, thou shalt hap to change hands,
And that new remedy appointed
May Take my old trouble, to mend my maladies.
  For thee, old acquaintance, who still hath my spite,
  Thou that acquaintance whose scythe can still make defense.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But when thou art assured I am the fair,
The bastard child of thy soul, thou art so strongly in my purpose bred
That, when found guilty, shall be a show,
And by a straight proof grow with thy hours.
Thou that art now the fairest and most common grave,
Shall the gilded monuments be unfathered and the proud trophies missed.
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make the world fairest in thy art.
  But be most proud of that which thou bestow'st,
  Even to thy grave where trophies are


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in their poesy;
They know what happ'ry is best;
They know what with their gust is greeing,
Which erst from their seeing, their heart's guess is best.
If thou wilt lose thy appetite, what loss doth thou prove
?
Thou wilt lose the sweet favor of all men,
And that enfeebled mine appetite even more.
  To eat with appetite thou hast to leave.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
One blushing shame, another white despair;
How should I then return rebuked to thy fair bosom,
When that shallow my love's proud hide?
O, that her false confess mayst thou taste
Of thy beauty still aloft,
Above a mortal pitch!
Another time my love hath her,
A third time thy praise, in another place.
So thou mayst true love excuse my woe,
A third time thy love hath her,
And, for my sake, another time doth excuse my jade.
  Therefore thou mayst true love excuse my jade


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Speak of thy sweet beauty and me most worthy
Want nothing that tongue that more hath my benefit.
But what good is tongue that more hath my invention spent?
Thou art more suited than tongue that more hath my amiss
And given my pen more skill.
Speak of the bounteous largess given thee;
And what a bounteous gift from thy sweet self thou receivest
Thou mayst call thine.
  Then, if thou wilt not kill me, why shouldst thou use my name?


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would tell.
Gentle thou art, therefore, beauteous
And truth will show thee where thou art.
By this, thou art more cruel than appetite,
Richer than tongue-tied tell, even so as palate surmise
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
Let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Since thy worthiness cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
  Till then, not for the wood but for thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou mine eye that cherubin'st it.
Thy soul's due, thy inward love, is thine own,
And my heart in thee is foiled.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style;
In me thou art thy sweet semblance,
And in them thy beauty is noted.
To thee I honor thy dumb presagers,
And thou in them thy sweet virtue doth live.
  I grant thou art much too fair to be remembered.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That on thy appeal shall be well proved.
The cause of thy great sin is wanting,
A dearer birth than thy love may have invited.
Thou art thy mother's birth, and therefore thy love
May Be Called Divine, in the sense that thou bring'st from thee
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud;
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun
And drops graces graces graces graces graces graces graces graces.
  Such is my love, to thee I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner had my heart slain
Than swift extremity could jump both sea and land;
I was swift to his aid, though my foe be.
I spur not on lame when my friend's boat
Possesses swift extremity, being wooed of time,
But, being wooed of swift extremity,
I think on thee in consent.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not.
  Then thou wilt be most blessed made,
  Which, kept aloft, will keep mine eye awake.

