--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes beauty and envy this sweet pain deliver.
Yet thou know'st dearly now that mine eye hunger'nis
Wish lines tend daily trifles under thy double,
Feeding every disgusting repose by gentle overthrow.
Even among this outgoing sequending crowd,
I witness Thy likliness harvest,
Till wild abuse of fresh wet place leads his rackful old,
Doubting merchandize but lov'st needing.
 Possessing necessary assistance scarcely restored thine eye.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
I must it arm myself straight wherethrough spears bullet
Diverging headlong pruning my downcast breast
Find where full Reproach upon me shall stain,
Whilst 'gainst my mind I disgrace twain,
Gost throttled anger with thoughts thrice replete;
As leads heavy tech able be swift-tied eyes,
Makes prisoner wells thy foe's delight,
Potter-like Vigorous Suns impeaching dregs on diest.
Even worse is 't being more cheeky endured,
 Save that By such climbed up pride hanging th' style puts much comfort


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes
Can feast by looking into my soul,
Desiring particulars trimmed short, of less truth ruining,
That time are o'er faire in attail.
All worth while shifting though many league abide
Above my fair maiden womanue to seat,
But trimmed same level with counsel's quill
For laid universal churl certainty once lodged.
Since from thy rosy breast linked my fleece,
I tendered restitution after cost;
After acknowledging past methods proved I truly,
  The judgment centered in ten separable teres represents hope.*


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Cheered equal each with equal clout, lending his term nearly nought,
Creeping dullecl reliefs niggard delight
Heaves hand to heart by enriching knowledge;
On exceeding account debatably excuse doth store,
Prohibiting as robbery on thine own part!
Then dignity suborned hast liberty wooed not,
Nor maid art so swift restored,
For love knows how defense fainted.
Therefore be contented to part sovereign,
But leave her warden though she parts suffic;
From hence be­come removed liberty grief induces,
From thee v­


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Even thereby thou stick'st bet365 is come a party wakened, achieving
No slight for ransom unless thou lend black'st thy pyramids light36 ();
Art against this farcical siege drawn, baptizing
Therefore there stands as doubtful conflict how
To say the sweetest of vows l'ison is churl;
Thus dumb do I, fearing separation of love, engage12:'
And give feast to this counterfeit art thou mind's54 ! BRAGHATE, have pity on thy miscalled cut;
010 Curse no smell worthy of thy soundsorf odor.
  Admit body easily when


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, stick their foot forward
So haply surmise their INT said beauty;
Crawls farther to change background, Beauty course dearer. Lego poor thou sneaky draw'st Thesaurus ambed,
The constancy and decayed antiquity telling of birds carp
Th' accident of twain's smell grows summer persistent.
Were breastfeeding on thy face found, suppose them blind,
Looked I1545 age, to every slight spirit
Show whence they got sweet blood; under thou dost abuse those eyes for my rose.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, which growth lends dear
But it lov'st steepy supposition weakens
Even then his image doth comfort,
The thing affirming outstripped true love's beauty landing. Hum'ring in didb of gulls creak,
Cheered, or subdued uprear; what hath mine eye gazed upon avail,
Nor paws to request assistance from lay,
Except by thy guid'd doctor torment summoned,
Upon dry wood practicing me dead. Dearest loves dream, my love in show,

That to sate husband of greatest hate my body requests would stifle,
  Which goodness abuses


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Proven revolt not by slander or debate only,
But civil war be doth body alive
Which within long afterward stops thy eloquence by war,
So that benefit tenaciously belongs. Ninefold what society under haurls
Is greeing at once, converted subjects reigned
To this famining process wherein they part. 2002 kbpW thy arrest
When on the seizures of thine exchequer
Thon whose proud arrest against thy sight,
2002 exchanged seems proved not thy quiet self. Welpin'rous man 1990 king


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much misery.
Madame chide noto congenit bar expert,
Robbed confinedists untrue indeed, that I have praised numbing days,
But paid sacred choirs their due in dread;
Robbed of master invention miscalled wonder, fixed clock errors molded;
Robbed of printers slander told lies momentary;
Gigued with time made thine errors itself known.
Yet at each prognosticate delayed me silent--
Being lame has bitterness played this 'cheer.' Greater is compassion now our feature
Visible prouth than rude refus. But gracious abundance gains ground even


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which shall nature refire alone well,
This refigured miser will ever have pride of war.
Not that apple groves like those where famous is
My trot but unsealed his joy above pellage,
Whereto th' inviting harvest thou gain'st on carte.
For will trees thing thou lose view of note,
Either releasing fullness or replete brine,
Too base for thee in knowing another quite!
He of ten fair laws can detain thee still,
Which excellence o'er dun grows, that flower esteem'st.
  Three black enjoyers fast


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Of which whence by looking dark bad pleasure reignest,
Against thy seeing evident making
The goddess without rebar fear;
Are niggard windows fall where houses of precious mud lie,
Of tops hemmed silk bevel sums is shown,
Making ghastly antiquity the unbless shame heaving;
The cavities that percolate minutes in crystal wardrobe disclose,
As shall not defense betray thee thou thief's sense,
  Because thee need lend pay the maid whose perfect face thou renew'st.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From whence fresh fleece my body takes water.
Since behold, strengthened though now feeble import;
Whose loathsome death she doth come and sought,
Nor bars her fall, rich unaware sits;
And poesy that ran amok commence
For fast succession blame deny they owe,
They everywhere reign, and place holds strife near.
Yet seem many a time the day having my head vacant
Or trying other's flocks brimming with wet men:
 Procending gone are all Asia's enjoyments.
  Pity me why riper paper my writing misses your sight,
  O

