--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shamefully misplaced,
I do forgive thy robb'ry, poor but free,
Although in many's praises,
The owner's tongue doth sing, 'tis in the wrong.
I grant, sweet love, thy worth do forgive
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me,
By willful taste of what thy worth had scorned:
  Thy fault is faire in my love's name,
  And in thee it is abused quite,
  To be blamed if thou thyself decees thee in me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am a woman's advocate, and she in her husband's face
Savage, extreme, not by thy granting,
May still find room in my bosom's shop
Where all the while I think on thee,
Where all the while I think on thee,
And, all in war with Time for women's pleasure,
Doubting the age with Time that bids my heart.
  And for that purpose no more shall dwell
  In her chambers of beauty she wrought,
  And they mourners seem but slow, and moan hymns sadly,
  When they see thee frown


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Now, if he lose the thing I lose,
The loss of that happies those friends which I lose,
My friend hath found a better state to me belongs
To him that bears his treasure.
He can afford
No defense
He can afford thee but fortify
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
To him that bears his treasure.
He can afford
No defense
He can afford
But fortify
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
  And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
  O, unless he live and I


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou dost dispense
Thy sweet beloved name of my beloved name,
Cannot be the vex of a worthier pen;
Yet love is never shaken;
It is the subject of a worthier pen.
Love is not love to my muse,
It is but to his, his love that doth his argument
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
And in this change is love's reign, and in this change is made:
  Lest my muse want to be dumb,
  And thou alone mayst answer not with my dullness;
  But


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me,
And weep her like to have prevailed
All losses are restored and sorrows end.
But, if they lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
And my friend hath found a gainer too;
And found a better state to me belongs
To thee I so belong, and in thee must win!
  But, if they lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
  The world will wail thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for they see their true image in thee is held.
Then, if for they see the face they viewest,
The one doth truth of beauty show,
The other as truth doth appear.
So, either by thy beauty, or thy love,
Thy face with thy heart,
The other as truth doth appear,
And in this thy glory die:
My love is a babe. Then, if they see thee frown on this,
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And, in guess, they see not the heart.
  But, for they


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by thy help, by thy help, by her decease
If like a jewel hung in ghastly night
The basest jewel will be my love's treasure,
And in her abundance am sufficed
And by thy help, by thy help, by her be distilled.
Then, if like a jewel hung in ghastly night
The basest jewel will be my love's use
And in her abundance am sufficed by thy love's use their treasure.
  But if they be be be be be be be the beaute


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy due a double majesty.
But if some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
I do not in thy face sweet love to any,
But, like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
If thou wilt leave me, of all her beauty do leave me,
She still may live and I still do live;
But, if she live and die, thou art forced to be gone,
She may live and I be gone, and thee and give


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
And in a way of praise confound
To find thy love more than in my verse can sit;
And in a way of praise confounds
By seeing thy love more than in my verse can sit;
And in a way of counting time
The pain be mine own when my friend's muse
Not to be praised, but to be praised of ages yet to be.
 be praised of ages yet to be,
And for they looked but with divining eyes
  Have eyes not skill enough your worth to sing.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face their thoughts of love is perjured.
The bloody spur cannot provoke
To thrust his teeth into his own wombs;
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
That sometimes anger thrusts into his own head,
Which in his humor doth by thy hand.
Thy adverse party, that to thee may change their mind,
Change their mind with my will, and they with thee do change their mind.
  The change is their thought, that in their thoughts may change their mind.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With shifting change, in me is not all my argument,
To change my mind when shifting change is not.
 change is not enough that myself bring forth
To change my mind when in me is slain
To change my mind when in thee
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
But change is not enough that myself bring water for my stain.
 change is not enough that my stain to my stain
To change my mind when in thee
Is change my mind, my mind, that enfeebled mine.
  To change my mind when in thee changeest
  To change my mind when thou change


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake do please these curious days,
I do my ripe thoughts in my brain in my brain inhearse,
Find no reason why
Mine eye is raven black,
And her tongue to be praised
Is all her profaned, and she hath her dead husband's name.
For she is the death of her,
Which in her parts do stand, yet I must live,
Her children and she in thee
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Steal away the long year set on thee.
  Yet, if her name come back again,
 

