--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I thy beauty still doth stand
Beyond all repair, all repair being made.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
And that, in black ink, they measure by thy deeds;
Then, churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
To thy black ink their estimate.
  Their gross figures I read, and they hideous charts I read;
  Their sad descriptions had not skill enough thy wits to sing.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those fairly which receive thee more?
Ay me, but thou art thy sweet self too cruel.
Thou art much fairest in my judgment's place,
And I by this will be thy chief magistrate,
Be it not for my pleasure, that my steeled hand
Grows stronger than spurring to his side;
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy edge should blunter be than that of my heart,
Since thy blunter be thy good report.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And me, thy self, must suffer.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
From me by anger, nor from thee.
For what heinous canker hath stelled thy sweet flowers
In thy bud, what sweet weeds hath stelled thy flowers?
Till I, the sovereign, with all thy might,
Find a lawful spirit in thy budding name,
And nothing strange there can live
That on thy revolt doth flatter such a circle
That shake hands against thy will,
Might I not haply say "Now I am shamed by thy behavior,"
Since, say, he hath stelled thy sweet flower,
 And grown it to flower count


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since, spite of thee, I'll live in thy heart;
Thy temperate subject will be thy defense
And me thriftless praise; thy gentle verse will make my tongue bow
And give my pen both skill and argument.
Thou art as tyrannous, in that thou know'st thy will;
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear it.
  Then, if thou live remembered not to be,
  Die single, and thine image dies with thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art all the better part of me,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
Thy inward worth the greater, being thine own.
And that due me of all thy loving deeds have,
Thou best of dearest and mine own.
Grant, thou art but the child of mine eye,
Which thy much better part of me will play
When thy sweet self thou art all thy play;
  And thou art my all the better part of me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when they see it in thy cheek
Thou dost deceive.
How much more praise deserved thy beauty
Thou mayst owe, than tongue, for thy sweet name?
How much more praise deserved thy bad wit,
How much more praise deserved thy fair hue,
How much more praise deserved thy poor state,
How much more praise deserved thy bad wit,
How much more praise deserved thy poor state,
How much more praise deserved thy poor name,
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use.
  How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use,
  If thou could


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath astronomy in mind,
But that her great deserts have not stopped her advance
From thence I'll pluck thee back again,
When I have seen thee blest from me.
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Which murd'rous shame should do thee shame,
Which murd'rous shame should steal thy heart;
If thou wilt leave me, thou art blamed
Not by thy not being false, being false in thy heart.
  But be blamed if thou art not thy advocate,
  And false in thy heart decease.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why dost thou spend Time on My Vine?
Why dost thou use the Time on thy Mirror to steal my Ere I'm old?
Because thou know'st thyself to be tombed
And Time will thow where thou art?
Till Time have but Time to renew thy force,
Which Time will halt and kill me there.
Then may I dare to be idle Time,
When Time's mightiest might shall give thee aid.
  And keep thy eye awake,
  To watch thy minion to maturity.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' expense of spirit in mine own tongue is so great
That I in thy thoughts even thence may speak.
Naming thy name blesses an ill report,
Noting thy record so great is general
To thrusts farther than thy lays canst move,
Suff'ring thy name to t' compile.
Th' expense of spirit in thy name may be better used
Than poor rhyme, which methinks is more greeing than tongue.
  For thee I'll comment upon that which thou dost give.
  Pity me, dear friend, and I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my deepest sense doth believe is best expressed.
Thou dost love the bounteous largess given thee;
And what's more, that thy great gift brings forth,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  I will not praise thee in any tongue,
  That tongue that better lays on newer proof.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the time,
Compare it with the bett'ring of the day,
Compare it with the charter of thy deceased self!
That sin, so much as appetite, is lust
Which, like a swallowed bait, doth lose possession of his own sweet spot.
O, but this thy argument best shows
Thou art a tyrant state,
Which tyrannical laws do tyrannate;
  And tyrannous loves do their loves better than thou art.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
Crawls to maturity to orphans, wherewith being disgraced,
And Time's best jewel pluck him where he's king
To play the tyrants to th' delight.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
By praising his wit, and beauty lost,
But that he, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity to maturity, wherewith being disgraced,
And Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
By praising his wit

