--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, red and white, being the same.
So all my griefs have drained his blood and filled his brow
With lines and wrinkles, and tongues far more common.
But when in dead night
Thy face hath his end, and thy heart no pace;
For all his muses filed in me,
Thy face hath his end, and no end.
  Yet, for thy sake to hear, hear thou music sadly:
  Sings this to thee: "Sweet flattery in me."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that you do pardon me?
Be where I list, my charter is so strong
That you may privilege your time
To what you will; to you it doth belong
Yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
And to pardon of self-doing crime,
I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
And by that offense by day is not made
  But day by night and night by day oppressed;
  And day by night and night by day oppressed;
  And night and night with all.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
He will not ev'ry hour survey
The vacant leaves of my mind,
Nor in the chronicle of wasted time,
The sad augurs of their fair birth will lie,
Unlooked for joy in that time.
But when they have devised
What acceptable audit can hold out,
They have not yet but sweetly done;
And, for they have devised,
They have but with divining eyes
Are vanishing, and in themselves are vanishing.
  Yet, for they have resurscaped and gone,
  And all things turns now unto me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If ever that winkle which thy love doth mend.
That thee, my love, is as fair, as she belied with murd'rous hate,
May make seem bare, in wanting words to thee,
Thy sweet self thou know'st I am shorn,
And in bounty cherish's mightst thou some place.
Then, be thou, and my love, and my love's worth do define
As any she belied with false compare,
May still seem love to me, and yet in these contents am:
  Thy love is a greater grief
  Than hate's known


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The object of my appeal says
The woman's face
May still seem love to me, though altered new;
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
O, no. Thy love, though much, is not so great,
May still seem love to me, and I will;
But, if for my love, thy love, thou mayst true love call,
  Then mayst true love in my verse ever live


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the orient when it behold the sight of the true sight.
That it is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But when in thy fair imperfect shade
Through windows of thine age shalt see,
Then look into thy glass and see them
Thy face hath not the power to repair.
  To repair thou see them ten times refigured
  And see them ten times refigured thee, if they see thee ten times happier.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I perceive that men as plants increase,
Cheered and checked with checked forsworn,
Unchecked with checked stores,
That she hath not the power to hurt,
To say they err I dare not be called the fools of time,
Although I swear it to myself alone.
And, to be sure that is not false she shows,
I swear it to myself alone.
  For she hath not the power to hurt,
 yet I think on thee,
  And yet, by thy estimate, she may be false of thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth my poor counterpart
And gives thy due a double majesty.
 Double majesty doth thine when thou in me
Wound me, what worth in thee doth grow,
Yet in that same pen doth dwell
That in thy fair subject doth dwell.
Let that copy what in thee doth live
Shall copies of my mind?
Be not self-willed, for thou being frank,
And for she may still find room
Those errors that in thee are seen
To truths translated and beauty were never.
  But, if they be false,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How far a modern quill doth belong
To this converted wonder of thy worth?
The answer, "tis writ in moods and frowns and frowns and cheeks strange.
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
So that I in thee dost breathe
In this wide universe doth dwell
That I in thee may still find room
That in this huge rondure hems.
  If he wilt write, muse, he shall
  And he shall be thy love."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And to be praised of good deeds by all men.
For I siss with thee I admire, and they that level
At first in their thoughts, their thoughts, were but in effect made.
Thy adverse party, the other in my note,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy sight,
One on another's neck do witness bear
Thy adverse party, that is in my mind,
On thy part I will uphold
Against thy reasons making no defense.
  In nothing art thou the stronger of my woe,
  And yet to thy fair I must strive to mend.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to myself I do compare
Thy self thou thy love hath not the power to pardon.
To do so much for wrong as in me
Give warning to the world that I am shamed by that which I bring forth;
I do not blame thee for my crime,
But yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refusured thee.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet, love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong.
  Lasc


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But when her husbandry bosom is to the eye,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
How many a holy and obsequious tear
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
And in their numbers number her treasure,
Proving her beauty by succession thine.
Proving her by succession thine alone
But let her suffer, poor but free,
Proving her by thy granting her leave her.
  O, what excuse will her sourly leave her till he have prevailed?

