--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath not figured to my heart;
My heart is thine, and they, like widowed wombs,
Do not question my sensual pleasure,
But rather acknowledge thy dear merit.
Thou art more humane than tongue-tied churl,
Than niggard truth of yore,
Whose truth tells me thou art.
  To give away thy love to hap to go,
  I must give them thine own, to give them thine own.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a woman's heart,
Which though I under my sovereign's roof cannot torture,
My husbandry forbidden?
Why dost thou abuse my wife's power,
Which husbandry forbidden us both?
Be thou the tenth woman in the world,
And thine ten times more in worth give.
If I have spied thee, my wife's name be found
And her husbandry forbidden;
Both husbandry forbidden with me.
  Incestable of more, slander plagues thee,
  Since thy great count leads to my wife's grave.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
Thou dost beguile me, that he who with thee doth lie,
Knowing thy dear love will ransom me of thee,
Resembling an unthrift in the world.
He that bears my sword, though not the wretch's art
Art but the master of my ill masked art.
That he hath my cloak, and that affords
My cloak not to my shame,
Which masked not with thee doth cover my shame.
  This silence for my sin hath masked me quite well
  From thee, to whom thou art blamed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If not from my heart?
Thou art much too fair, and doth my pen give
Than niggard truth will willingly impart.
If from thy heart thine defect, why then thou forsake me
And write of my woe?
Thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
That 'gainst myself a lawful plea commence.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
Ere long since canceled woe.
  If the old


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art more strong than rich in knowledge,
than wit, dear thy worth being,
Knowing thy worth will allow;
And therefore have I slept in thy soul's thought,
Since thy blind soul can see
Thy worth bending all the better for thee.
If thou wilt lie, thy soul doth lie,
The grave should have thy mind,
Which, to remove thy monument, will be thy cure.
  Thou art much strengthened, being fond on thy sorrow,
  Since thou art much strengthened when thou art removed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know that sweet bounty where it live?
For why dost thou now give them thine own
And that fresh blood which thine washes for fresh blood?
O, those spies of thy deceased days,
Who even but now are all dead,
Who, all in one, are dead,
 They that receive thee and give fresh blood;
They that speak with thine own tongues,
Who even but now are all dead,
  And tongues that thy name still doth live.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she may use my silence to make war upon thee.
To give her aid I send this written embassage
To witness duty, not to show my wit;
Duty so great, though faster might be removed
From thy face, and my friend cut from your sight.
Thou canst not, sweet friend, disgrace me half so,
Since, spite of thee, I'll live in this poor rhyme,
Making no blest humor.
  She owes me thine own, and thou her son
  Shall profit thee of my rhyme.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor do I envy those who plead for thee.
Thou art more than rhetoric in my verse,
Gilding my comments to a more pleasing sound.
And what a poet is fairer than tongue?
Thou art much clearer than thine own tongue,
Richer than both thy pen and heart,
Inclosing a wide universe of words.
And in this fresh invention I'll gain
As much insight as tongue, by learning thy dear argument.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And to keep yourself still is to be wished,
  And to be wished


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than niggard truth would show.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And April's firstborn flowers are strangely shorn;
Then of thy beauty do I question make
That thou among the coldest days of the year is
Ah, do not so. The roses fearfully on thorns grow,
Borne on the bier with thy growth's end,
Sap checked and checked even by the elements,
More than thy summer's pride, more than thy praise.
  Therefore, do not press me here
  Where thou art not yet warm.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that in thee doth invent.
Thou dost love Eve, my rose;
I love not less the spirit of thy spring,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother;
My body is thine, my heart is clay;
And my heart doth rehearse,
Since, if ever heard, it hath no determination.
For how do I hold thee, my rose,
Whose fresh repair if now thou receivest,
  Since thy fresh repair is not fresh?
  To thee I engraft, but thine are kept


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A vengeful tongue doth steal thy sweet inward light;
That tongue that tells the story of my pleasure,
Making a star outcast state,
Cannot dispraise but in a kind of praise.
Thou single mak'st a tyrant;
That tongue that tells the story of thy pleasure,
Making a gilded tomb
Of virtuous knights, to whom I praise thee.
  For why should I tongue praise thee,
  Since this slander doth perjured say
  Die to virtuous purposed change.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No wonder, then, that thou bear'st not Time's fool,
Seems cunning, swift, and double-vantage;
That thou hast Time's gift, swift, to Time's woe.
To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
And Time will steal thee all my sweet hours,
Stealing thee of thy woe.
Thy unused time, when thou art allayed,
Sets thee back in breeding to breed another thee.
  Thus do I pine, surfeit thou wert thou art,
  To be Time's fool, to be Time's be-

