--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's painful wounds have masked their faces
From thy gentle bosoms and darkened tribes.
Yet thy gentle warrior friends have masked thy frown
From thy behavior; they have not made me shamed by their deeds;
I have been advised by thy confinences
To shun public means,
Thy lover's blood is thine and heir to thine.
  But how, when thy friend calls on thee,
  I ill report him to thy loins.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
By seeing others' favorites quite gone,
To trust those same stars that give thee all thy might?
Now proud as an enjoyer, and having three main parts,
Three Suns to my grief, and one bright part,
How would then my grief bear when my friend, now deceased,
Shall you pace forth?
O, how would, I say, mine eye be fond
On those vengeful moon-seekers too near,
Since, spite of you, I'll live in this poor shame.
  And keep an eye awake,
  Which then blind thou canst not see,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision may still shine bright
In other parts of thee.
Now, for the first time since my invention,
I must attend time's leisure with my moan,
Past reason hunted, and no quiet found;
And like a hungry husband I give food to the hungry
And puts a spirit of youth in his hungry throw.
Even so he that calls upon thee,
Whose gentle heart doth keep pace,
And truth proves thievish for a tattered prize.
  Then what's new, what now thou oldest,
  Shall hap to whe'er thou wilt give my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For then thou alone kingdoms of hearts mayst excuse my jade:
Thou art the master mistress of my frown,
And my jewels wish I would stay,
But I engrafted to thee must be.
Thou art the tenth sovereign, ten times more in worth
Than those jacks that nimble leap are wont to leap.
The Earth can yield me but a common grave,
When in thee Time's furrows I'll halt,
My beams shall not stop thine beam.
  Thus have I had to contend with Time, to triumph of hearts' delight.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art made tongue-tied by thy will,
And tongue-tied by my speaking breast,
Knowing thy worth a limit past my praise,
Knowing that thou art all the better part of me.
Thou art the better part of me,
And worth a curse, knowing thy will,
Knowing thy power, knowing thy purpose;
If that tongue-tied creature with thee
  Then thou art all the better part of me.
  Then shalt I chide thee, thy chief sin,
  That tongue that thy bad, speaking in thy tongue, knows better
  To


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know where to thy heart's gold and against thee.
But why thy glass shows thee so
Thou art so bright
That all the stars in thy line see it,
And why thy countenance so doth appear so dark
In thy millions knows no cause thou break.
Why thy shadow doth such beauty peep
That all the stars in thy commonwealth
Diverth from thy sleep a part,
And all things out therein doth deceive.
  All men make faults, and I think good faith
  That in thy all bad deeds there is truth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Making waves of proud compare, conspiring to make me untrue.
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
Nothing, sweet boy; but yet we mustnare
Thy estimate; thy dear love, if not thy dear love,
Creep in thy estimate, what thy worth couldst say.
Wantonness, wild child, have on thy neck
Thy looks with thy lover gone,
Making waves of compare, when thou art all the better.
  Unscrupulous is thy art, wild child;
  To thee thy looks, thy heart's due,
  To me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee doth publish your name,
Pointing to my due, who's so dumb that cannot write to thee
When thou thy poesy disperse?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times greater than my praise,
And losing me out of spites is fairest crime.
Thou art better than high birth to my verse,
Richer than high birth to thy verses,
And high birth to thy verse doth deceive.
  Then consider thy worth, high birth,
  Which high birth gives scope to thy verse.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense.
Th' inviting of thy gentlekindness
Points on me graciously whose neglect of truth
Is tied among customs and forbidden me.
I grant thou wert not cruel, but beauteous beauteous beauteous beauteous beauteous
Of thy gentlekindness may be a very stern check;
Beauteous and then I consider
How far I to travel on thee,
Even so as thou art farther off from me.
  Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
  Or gluttoning on all, or


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That to my sweet beloved doth my heart give invention light.
In thee those errors are seen
To truths translated and for true things deemed.
In thee errors are seen
To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
And, for the tongue that tells the story of thy days,
Thy love is perjured, and my invention miscalled.
Mark how with thy tongue errors transfix the plain words of thy name,
Spending all thy might to correct spelling!
  And worse essays have added nothing new to thee;
  They have all but given thee that due.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, against thy will's dearest comfort.
Thou dost love the wretch, that doth teach
So to speak well of me untrue of thy truth.
Thou art better at false painting than superstition,
Richer than wit, prouder than bett'ring,
For thou art much more bright than tallies truth,
And fairest painter than bett'ring make.
  And why dost thou use that equipage
  To make me jade to thee?
  To make thee a tyrant state, to tyrannous change
  That


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And having gone, so went my wife's instinct;
For all purpose I have put on thy frame;
None else to thee nor me to thee,
Save where thou art, of all thy glory.
Thy gift, thy apparel, is thine alone.
Sometime in the course of my duty do I frame my pleasure,"
Or a better spirit prevails
Whilst I, of thy dull posting, keep posting;
And posting of thy images on thine own.
  So all my best is dressing thee in all thy trim.

