--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet brain chide thy loving name.
Thence comes it that I perceive thy face
From far off, where beauty lies hid,
Which my thoughts, oblivious to thy sun,
Doth prognosticate thy mood, knowing thy heart.
Then thou thy fair self, drawn by envy,
Sets for a gilded tomb, where beauty's statues sit,
Who still seem to dwell in thy fair form.
  Thy beauty conceits how thy brow doth look,
  Which eyes not yet know, but


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To witness the worst of fate smothered,
To plead for my friend's life or his friend's life cut short?
O, give me your love, give me your love,
Although my life be nothing short of reproach,
To hear the rude ceremony of your death.
O, what a happy ending awaits!
The world cannot make happy ending lines
That life and death together must toil,
Though our loves in their turns make sad turns.
  O, comfort me that I am not sorrowing much;
  My poor state, being fitted for a better state,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounty of thy will.
But now that my will hath been proved,
My love's will hath been expressed;
And, more than fair, my husbandry expressed.
Now that my husbandry hath expressed
My deepest love and thereby hath found his share,
So mine own true love, though captive,
Within the defendant statement lends
To show me that I am untrue.
  For, when my husbandry hath expressed my true love,
  Such a gracious light shines in the face of hell.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And here's the trouble: how can I stay awake till work my eyelids,
Or your sweet desire, where thou art,
Thy hungry eyes can feast, and I in them,
To kiss your tender time of nought.
Why, then, thou needy eyes, do I dream,
Making dreams more real than living eyes,
Gilding on thy tender nought,
And gilding on me thy self-love calls,
  Lascivious cherubins, to thy possessing shame.
  In other words, thou dreaming poor me,
  Lascivious


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So thou art blessed, when thou dost find
Thy body in thy love's force;
In this I beguile thy jealousy,
And from thence thou mayst flee.
I grant thy true love doth lie,
For thou art blessed indeed in that thou leave
The scope and tenor of my moan.
Thou in thy love's power is ten times more strong
Than in mine own love's might, being pierced,
Being sick, being lame, being taken,
And died for thy love.
  If thy love have ranged, thy scales would be thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou dumb, sweet love, what dost thou steal?
Why send'st thou away to live a lie,
Creating more delight in thy sight than
Coral is capable of making?
Why forbid the blessed maiden to depart
From home and live in thy heart,
Save that thou through her marjoram
Cannot bear the storm that follows,
Shall from thy side thine own storm be?
  Or, if thou survive thy storm,
  Thine return will be thy grief.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of young lust in false registers deceived.
What can I say that I do believe her to believe?
Nothing at all, truth be assured;
My love is but true when she tells it to me.
I grant, sweet love, thou art the sweetest of all lovers,
And I am assured thou hast much in common.
Such is my love, though I change my mind,
To subjects more dear to my heart than tongue affords.
  Lascivious grace, like to betake his young brain
  To learn by watch what is done.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I will confess thy trespass when thou gav'st thy heart's content.
Then be contented when I am proved
By the learned's report of thy offenses,
Or when all the kingdoms of the world are proved,
To bear a single blow against myself
When by fortune I am attainted,
Bound only by thy largess and meurer's
To inherit every penance and every flatterer's book.
  For till then thou wilt bear my cross,
  Which, confounded, shall in my verse be
  All the proud title of this worthless book.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such worth as thy pen churls.
O, change your thought; change my thought;
Look what thy brain hath composed.
Such errors do inhabit lips of fair minds;
They often speak of mine eye and me of thy mind,
And, being blind, they both view mine eye
And me of thee.
Thou who art so fair, be of thyself so dumb,
And, having eyes that can see thy sight,
Be dumb in thy praise make.
  And that is what tongues teach.  Be dumb indeed, be dumb in thy praise,
  And my reb


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me hatred doth appear.
In me, hatred of others doth seem,
But to my beloved roses that outlive mine.
In me, love doth idolatry appear
And in me, love of others doth lie.
And in me, dear love, all perfection is lost,
And my image doth die with me,
When all others have given life to me.
  Therefore thou shouldst be my all,
  And to this end my verse begins.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thine own true love in thy art.
Thou canst not be heinous in my judgment;
That is thy trespass in me.
What canst thou but call acceptable in me
That mine own free will in thee confounds,
Creepy gates, that weed outbraves in thee?
Hearing that thou tongue wail'st false poets,
Toss'ring true words with vulgar humor,
Making my verse bad in front of the wide world.
  For to be blamed what is true doth be so;
  To be blamed what is true doth be true


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The wretch, by time stopped,
Kisses her when she walks in front of her,
Making an unprovoked groan in her neck,
Cannot look her in the eye,
Sets her down again, and commits a stupor
To his take a wife of his leisure.
For if he be grieved at my neglect,
He shall not be grieved at mine;
I am mine and theirs is the well of well-tuned
O'er-tuned praise.
  Then him that insults my love enjoys my grief,
  Since that I

