--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white despair.
I have seen thee frowning on the world,
Thy dial how thy beauty may make opaque
To the wide world and all her fading sweets.
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my thoughts
Haply I think on thee, and then my heart's thought
Makes 'er a wretch beauteous mother,
And thou gav'st me thine unused child.
  Yet this thy thought kills me that I cannot remove thy moan.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a plea can speak,
As 'twixt a gilded tomb and a beggar sits
Upon the high desert and the low desert;
For if this be error, my heart doth plead
That thou bear the strong offense's cross.
Be thou my equal, and my appeal shall be
To that eternal warrantship now crown.
  To this I witness call the fools of time,
  Which die for goodness who have lived for crime.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not abused.
He that bears thee with me, let him be
And keep mine eye awake,
Steal from thy heart; thou dost wake elsewhere.
He that bears me with thee shall in time appear
And wear thy cloak, so thy sweet face shall stand
Upon thy loincloth and thee in proud title.
He that bears me with thee shall in time be shamed,
And him that doth that be grieved
To have thyself as a willing patient.
  If he do please thee, tender him thyself thy love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than say I will jostle thy dear doting heart,
Feed my nerves, make my heart woe.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy fear in thy workings much too great.
Beauteous niggard, to whom my jewels trifles are
Unlooked for treasure, add that my pleasure depends.
If my dull flesh be tickled by thy desire,
My veins th' thought will be thy good report.
  If not assailed by salve, chopped with thy parts,
  Th' offender's shame shall in proud title


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Grant, if thou art disposed to be tombed
And thine own vision is enough,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might;
My body is shorn away,
And thee buried lover is no farther from thee.
Thou art much too fair, a tyrant, to be removed
As those beacons which the tyrant to thy sightless list
Are. If that be error, thy tomb be replete with thy shame.
  And worse still shall be thy tomb,
  Where beauty's counterfeit shall be allayed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee frown on my defects,
Thy frown shall not be so much as thy frown,
Be it thy will thy sour leisure to anger.
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament
And only herald to the gaudy spring
Within thine own bud buriest thy budding name;
Within that flower buriest thy budding name,
By addition thy sum of good and evil.
  Yet fear them that on thy humor
  Die, and their fears are strengthened,
  By thy gift being grown.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With proud compare wait for my love to woe,
When in truth thou art assured mine.
Then, if thou wilt, I swear,
My love was but the herald
Of a brand new wert truly flatter I the mountain,
Thy youth as thine in the day;
My love is strengthened by thy continual march,
Though altered not by shifting seasons' place.
  Till then, thou wert not false to love me then,
  And keep my pen all paged with comments.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I witness thine own hand to ceremonial immigoration
Which holy graven is well esteemed.
For why should I not leave thy hand
When otherworldly numbers do show thee me?
Till I prove thee virtuous, and thou my friend
Worthy of all hearts a fair banquet.
To be so tickled they would change their minds
And situation with thy jealousy;
Till they devise a better policy
To make thy jealousy worse.
  Then may I dare to boast how much better I think
  For thy unused beauty heals thy wound.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sense;
Beauteous is thy invention too short?
How much farther afield can my pen
Bound for thy sweet argument,
Thy satire too excellent to publish?
Thou art more eloquent than tongue-tied speaking the bane;
How much farther afield can my horse be
Bound for thy sweet bosoms?
O, none but straight, for truth proves thee my best.
Till I prove thee my wits,
And straight prove thee my truth.
  Then send me blest spies, so that my word may be
  Continued growing.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they engrafted their thoughts.
Thou dost call thy beauty greeing,
Divert strong minds to th' tables of th' table,
Which yet are better kept secret than high alt'ring tables of th' table.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Utt'ring bare ground with clay and barren rage?
  Theirs a mansion and their gardens were
  To be admired, but their gardens were but barren of any flower.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one on thee will give all my grief,
The other my sorrow will be mine,
And my gain by that unfair compare.
Both grace and faults are present,
And in them I find out
Thy adverse party is present still,
That thy good witness is still the greater.
The first sin is my willful taste,
The second my bad, which thy good witness affords.
  Since both grace and faults are present,
  All truths present, and even to thy present.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, having married a tyrant,
I'll myself disgrace you like a sad slave,
Whose skill is unhappily translated, like a sad wife;
And having married thy blest to make,
I'll feast on thy praises
And make them taste good, like thy summer's guest.
Beauteous though thou art, I hope,
Who confounds me even there where thou art
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To make me tongue-tied speaking.
  No such kindness hath my beard been,
  Since all Spaniards graced beauteous

