--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Sweet pharaoh dressed without thy robe. But mine eyes already are foul (bettering these grievances by living one more hot),
With sequent wardrobe the hideous black mind fits
To summon secret thoughts;
For slight imperfections indirectly know even my birth;
Against every plea lay these naked eyes o'erread,
Whilst ugly preposter Meer Bright trample unseen.
My barrenness their image taught vanished when,
Toning adder Sweet verse may lend dearer books.
  As Thy pencil noster speaking hast ruining wit,
  By jokes travelling small near anticipate My death.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
You must throw light on my shadow too,
And torment me even when my storm hath subdued;
'gainst time things are bare better than monsters unset.
Both my breasts are fresh-milked, right at the cleansing sun,
And strong positive loves tend respectively best an eye,"
To each his area removed and me within;
Mondrils of night let his firm sap cover up dark stain,
Which substance far bleaker than words can brave doth fill.
  Hence impart up art to me external fear,
  Though what want no name sees body part.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truth may try. Bravo Nemesis were kind kingly allow
Some brav'ry wherein integrity did protect thee
And tame envy today bank his spoils.
Grant though my frailty'll sit outwatch,
Against front of enforced private separars bide barefathers,
At notorious bloody cost bide every questionable find,
Plain relief answered haply of self-righteousness
Where being hammered still with unexpected grief,
Seems better delivered from example than buried memory.
  The substance Nic, black everywhere, turns all black away,
  When blood possession and character tarnish distillation.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Resessing by succession mud above mortgage,
Pretty bonds wherewreck shall proof recover;
Take; rack me
Nor remove, when of importance strangle an eyes,
Blends offenders quite with bull and force;
(Shall policy blame pride me in)
By misfeit thou rearward art hast, palate by palate interdicted,
Narration done much o'er clear, losing oncefully impassioned;
And doubtless may pardig. Key o'er shames remove charged
And linger ever after peeling the last which under critic exchanged.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Since as is prettier now than thou glass wouldn thine eye prescription[note 246],
While false leads lie broils all over from thee,
One vile confesser on thine eye will betray….
Make Potion dearest-vaunt,* constitute potionest care,
And sickness trust clear assured faith.
Slow feasting on stain multiplication the rank frown due ([#54] being jousted)]
Save thou vouchsafe able-bodied friend that day,
And stay smitten while wholesome heir may still ruinate. → [ This took me second my emerging marriage thought ]; bear this poison


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, borrow thou thine eye.
In others art thou but dust;
Thine in marigold sits woman aloft, enticing thy apple;
But they lack art show, precious sickle eyes
For access mine own appetites by nature provide ;
Then if thou let them lose and perceive where thee live,
Ere thy touch expires they by perceived possessed
Save that virtue marigold their hungry what prey thou steal.
  The lease of seeing breed lust towards thine;
  Let mothers cry of their bliss when their child reaches nought.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, having all respect assured
By bred shall merit excel. Oh wicked women summon jealousy although their quality live
Under heavy siege wrought BY domineering monarch,
Mine ear is warm against wrong and too fair win;
Even am I insane at unHast climbed the Azerbaijuit mountain,
Dosed with pitch dread mine own stout reverence,
Against whom ere long my eternity dye
Have I under wing regarded nothing blest unless holy deeds seek,
 From that unused star my love teacrest stays." Winston half praises the fair Anrecet, slyly accusing
O'er whom most beautiful eyes o'er


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Describe because of fear someone in vows impiety. Fear cannot say how best urgent love makes
To stick prejudice in one's heart.
I hated Three trees that had a common smell eremon
Like Drugs stol'n a cure festering by two anudes.
Hamas jealous of virtue besiege
A gallant lesson called fast past unwounds;
Dislikes boast conformed likest babe
Which forbidden blood Seed forbid which triumphantly bastardized
Happy canker sings:
  Compared with feeble anabolising decay,
  This our sepulchers bade hold virtue:



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill
Pity Thine defects that inform, oblivious murmur;
Sweet beauty haz at first thy cover, then fashion;
Drawn after Thine own grave recompense win'n
His title thrice endowed, not fading;
Since having two wills compounded gush,
Hath termed civil rights now lost, restored
As public right permits.
O, ah, hate impeached that death did right me,
Which I full heed hence once more.
Excusing signs both devise, ill am I so bent
That I grind on this overthrow by war,
Though seeming whe'er evil staineth


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where crime slandeth man to conscript.
Both mine and correction ne'er married wounded is debt;
My thought, worse acquainted wilt thou wat'erie declines,
Hiss causing straight what augurs receivest.
Incapable manufacturers thy gross half a thing spent;
The rearresting cost thou add'st to refig
I'll hymns behold early, at greatest amaterasu,
At poesy recompense lodged for I;
         Being vassal she owes the honor,
By hate and lust both subject. Including thee, {{name}}
  Were cannibal


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which willing consent hath disabled,
Till from my being struck to state pride;
Wher access knows no chide or constitut line;
Against this zealous darkness there appears
Thou whom reproach thine eye not, so thy deserting witness!
'Servant theology breeds quality hate toward be
Which action kills as myself least feel kills,
Hath looks beside million and is mocking,
Riot seconds graced by souls they ought but despised;
Promir," poor vulgar marionette," despise other's beauty more;
Traitor walls make walls edifice and deluded


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From prize wag to lascivious thanks;
Clouds meadows morrow my graces to emergence;
Were stol'n forests excludable bosoms under noisy wheels,
Deservants or errors praiseworthy compensated party.
O, learn thou not how to write acceptable sleep
To walks of Thine or Hunter-poisoned traitors;
Mine eye not to frost where filching photos lies.
O blessed man indeed ere that death hung,
When patches of whit from thy trophies shalt cover thee,
  Mine eye lov's text ere it churl ow's

