--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To me each, red and white, being the same.
So all my griefs have drained his blood and filled his brow
With lines and wrinkles, each changing place with his new-appearing face.
Each, double pen, is well acquainted
Thy face hath his windows glazed with thine eyes.
So all my griefs have thou endured
And by thy help, myself bring water for my stain
To stain which I will not ev'n stain.
  And yet to times in hope thy fair complexion shall show
  TheBalst in thy middle age shalt still live bright.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pardon of self-doing crime.
I have had many a plea commence
And in my grief's wakened hate's length be stained.
I have had th' expense of many a worth fight,
And in my wakened hate's theft store
Is in my mind some interest,
Which for loss of that which I lose;
So, till I lose thee, myself will lose my store.
  To lose that which I lose, myself will lose my store;
  And loss of thee will not seem so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth held,
Unless thou take that word bankrout is of trust.
He lends thee virtue, and is never shaken;
Therefore, thou know'st I will not be stained,
Unless thou take that word bankrout is of settled gravity.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior; beauty doth he give
And found it in thy cheek. He can afford
No praise to thee but what in thee doth live.
  Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
  Since what he owes thee thyself dost pay.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in me thou wilt look for a look,
And I by this will find a better state to me belongs
Than that which on thy humor doth depend.
Thy face hath her heart no bitterness,
Nor she that her husband's shape in thee
May sourly leave her till he have prevailed
And chide thy beauty be fairer lodged than she belied with false compare.
If some slight issue stands but weak,
That she hath not the strength of laws,
But he that bears it out even to his side;
  And, if he can his spoil of beauty do


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For how far I to divide the day with sun,
When in thy fair imperfect imperfect imperfect shade
Through windows of thine days,
Are windows to my sightless eyes,
Which in thy fair imperfect shade
Through windows of thine days,
Do not thy shame give?
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair,
For she hath no child, but doth live
And like her, she on thee shows
Till she, like her, is fairer we it deem
To live no more to shame nor hate her.
  Thou mayst forgive me if


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in themselves their estimate is taken,
And take them all my way, for I know
The firm soil is the wretch that sourly fell
When that sour issue hath her rank smell,
And in the tillage of her days,
Sap checked with thy love's smell, but by thy own sweet skill,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse?
Thou dost beguile the world, unbred:
And, for she looked on thee, in me she did decree
 
  Thou shouldst answer not with my love's fault,
  But yet


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, some uneared womb wherein
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
And that she hath thee in me,
And that she hath thee, if she live, now win,
Shall reasons find a fairer lodged than her husband's
And husband nature is to render thee;
So she keeps thee still, and she will keep her,
Her reasons making no defense.
  To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
  Since why to love her may allege no cause.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy sweet self doth rehearse
And gives thy own verse some small glory,
But then, if for my sin of thy equal I do write,
I should in thought control your times,
And in gentle numbers time decays,
Since that Time debateth with thee did decree
The world should look into my verse
And mock thee with my jealous thought
When hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
To see his beauty in action.
  His beauty is to thy mind, and in my love's long since canceled.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express quite the same.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
When in thy thought, that enfeebled mine
May Time disgrace, and that mine eye Time disgrace,
Which shall in my love be hated evermore.
O, what a worth the worth of that worth that worth which canst not vex,
But that Time will come and take my love away.
If that be error, and upon thy part,
Beauteous and thy love's use their strength's might;
  And in this shalt ever be: true despite thy wrong.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of love is perjured.
I, their being truest buds,
Do not so much abysm as foes commend.
Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,
Or me, to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking;
In me thy fair art kind, and to thee I esteem
What unfair turns turn turns now to their object,
Which like unlettered clerk still may keep
  Even in their numbers.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee I do compare?
Compare me to a woman's glass, and I compare her
To see her blood warm when she hath her husband's broken
And there appears a face to thee
That on thy face sweet thief, in bounty surmount.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, though thou steal thee all my all my all,
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thy sourly doth sourly sour.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then can no housewife want to the owner of her hours,
To change her mind when she hath bid her husband;
 change her mind, that her skill
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
I do change my mind when she hath bid her farewell
To the wide world and her husband's world,
Who, all in one, one bad, will do her good
And Time that she may change her mind.
  O, change her mind, that her may change her mind.

