--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou dost love offenders now converted
From the thing they had before;
They had not before exchanged vows;
Yet this I change my mind,
Thy looks now to thee; my new seeing, thy heart's history,
Made more by thy continual haste.
Thou dost beguile me, to whom thou hast delegated,
To make me tongue-tied speaking of thy heart.
  To give them thine own tongue, I must attend
  The very parts of thy speech that thy dear heart doth use.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust a greater worth with trust?
Is it enough that your friend hath left me,
To trust him with my will, my desire,
To trust him with my needs, my dear doting heart?
O, no, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And take thou my oblivion, poor but free,
Since thy oblivion lies, free from blame,
But take thou my oblivion farther than my torment.
  To give him base consent thou mayst take
  All my oblivion, which is thine alone.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken
From thy heart when thou art dead.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art
And that no small sum of sums will stand
Against thy will, knowing thy will;
I am thy chief thief, and thou art
The one, the other thy chief desire.
For if this chief desire, evermore fulfilled,
Thou art all tenants to that which thou keepest.
  Then others for thee, me for thee,
  Shall live th' account of me,
  Which by paying too much thou art assured.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy frown will be fairer lodged than thy heart;
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
Thy slight hand will chide thy theft,
And her slight finger will comment;
Both will comment upon thy slight injury.
Thou art so bold, know'st to my dear heart
To trust those jewels which thy neglect will be.
  Then chide thy neglect, and thine adverse party
  Were to blame thee quite, knowing thy bad.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art much too fair, much too short,
For fair thou art at a mortal war to know
Thou art thy minion to my soul's pleasure.
That shall not vex me more than thy moan
If thou wilt prove me wrong, though I swear it to thee.
Thou art much too fair for my glass to stain;
For thou art much too fair for my lips to stain;
And tongues to thine own flower have expressed their will;
So thy good is my love today, tomorrow bad tomorrow.
  To this I witness call the fools of thy days,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in thy soul's glass,
Stealing away the treasure of thy soul.
For why dost thou spend Time on Nature's wrong
To make our Time's spoils despised
And to thy sweet self too proud to blush?
Till thou, thy sweet self, who dost deceive,
As thy sweet self decease, by thy continual confound
To make our Time's spoils despised everywhere.
  Then do thy worst, poor thief,
  Mine eyes even though thy sweet self deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath her hold on to eternity;
That she hath her hold on to eternity graciously
And, though enemies to either's reign,
I swear it to myself alone.
When some suspect of my jealousy
Points upon my brow and says "Thou art the wits of both's"
The first to bow, the second to say "This woman hath all my wits."
  And so the story goes,
  Which first begins with thy love and ends with her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beggared of thy blood to blush must I taste;
Unless thou be a willing patient,
Of thy gentle spirit must I approve
Of thy sickle hour.
I grant thou wert not poison me with thine own sickle hour,
Since thy presence is not so great
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is.
If, poison me with thy fear,
Since thy presence is so great
That my beloved name no more shall dwell,
But that thy pity may still seem fair.
  To give away yourself from me is to be removed
  And me as from thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more than gentle as thou art.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that dear April.
  Therefore, do not press me here
  Where thou art not from fair mind able.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that doth that hate comment.
Thou dost love my poor but unthrift,
Which for thyself doth steal, and my poor lips,
Feed th' course of Fortune's apple.
Then, if for my palate, thou my cup of truth doth lie.
Thou dost love my sweet fingers, thy fingers being fond on chewing;
And my poor lips, poor but free, are as the worms of the world.
  So dost my poor lips be cured of worms,
  And tongues to thee did cure me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare not with the eye of heaven,
But with thy own sweet self thou art.
Nativity, once in thy bending,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
Crawls to maturity to false compare.
For why dost thou spend eternity in thy creation
To make of wrinkles thy beauty's shade?
Till the world get thee my bad,
Since why to thy fair I'll ever be fair?
  Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
  Which used lives th' executor to be.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
That sometimes his quick offense thrusts into his hide.
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
Now with the drops of this most balmy time
My love looks fresh, and Death to me subscribes,
Since, spite of him, I'll live in this poor rhyme,
While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes;
  And thou shalt find thy monument still
  Where tyrants

