--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty in their neglect,
Hath put on white, and loving mourners be,
Crowning thy beauty's disgrace.
Yet thy appeal, all grown and fair,
Is still not enough to my grief,
Nor my woe to my sorrow's end,
To say I am so sordid
As thou shalt in this adulterate story fade,
Making no defense against thy sight.
  Therefore my love shall in this beauteous rhyme,
  Where thou art so strongly withering that my love shall in this fade.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When in the party of hurtful love I run am I?
Or if I am, so am my life,
And weep as I do when I am stol'n,
Whose sweet nerves are too strong to break
For me to the wrack of steeled love's sickle.
O, give heart to heart my love;
If my heart, 'gainst my frailties,
Thou wilt be a better husband than I am.
  Then can I dare to boast how I do love thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may view
The sour smell of thy sweet blood.
Then shall those tears which my eye hath stol'n,
Make their tomb and their canopy o'erworn,
Seeking pardon of their crime;
Then shall I proud proclaim that I am thou,
And that thou, true to my countenance,
Whose worth their trespass hath shown,
To bear witness to the very crime they did.
  So shall those tears which my eye hath stol'n,
  Which I will proudly show thee when thou provest me truly.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Even so thou canst not vex me more,
Than I, whom thou canst not love, will vex me more.
That's enough for me now, now is the time
To be vexed out of thee;
To be obsequious no longer will be my love than thou art,
And to be obsequious no longer will be my desire;
For if thou take that away, I am so much in love
That for thy sake must I bear this cross.
  Since that cross I will not bear thee cross,
  Till I be unfathered and thee delivered.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou repent, forgive not my affliction;
Thou art not guilty of all my wrongs,
And am beloved of all thy faults,
But of my greatest griefs is this:
My griefs are thy loves, and I feel their dread;
But if thou repent, thou repent'st my grief,
And feel thy sorrow as thy love discloses.
Thou art not guilty of all my sins,
But of all my graces is this:
  Thou art my all, and I all the world,
  And for all my faults shalt thou prove.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou know'st to some advantage thine eye.
Yet the dear and the precious thing that thou hast,
Whose sweet spite hath sweet grace got,
A right of right and wrong of wrong,
A right of both sweetness and color perceived.
The eye hath within it some part of thee,
Which it cherishes not for itself but for thy taste.
The heart, which cherishes not for itself but for thy love doth.
  Such is love's cunning, that thou, being gored,
  Makes every ill to prove it right.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who on account of mine own unprovident love holds all my glory.
For how much more praise deserved my poor moan
Than from her well-contented guest's eyes,
When her gracious husband doth sit and boast,
Making a fine show of me, that I am as thy sun
To greet the world with his huge pebbled crown.
Then others, thinking on my situation,
More conciliatory than I am,
Than I am dumb, being dumb in thought,
When others think on my worth and look on my deeds.
  Then others for my sake do


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the world unkind, where thou belongs,
Sing to the proud where thou dost lie.
O, convert not with my deeds,
But convert not with my mind,
That is to my mind still my argument.
"For what good do mine eyes find when they look into thee
And see thy love set in motion a thousand groans?"
"O, that is not my feature,
Mine eyes, being famished, are famished more;
Thou art my image, and theirs is my sorrow."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thy rude hand doth use.
In all thy deeds I boast,
Even those that of thy sweet self I esteem;
Yet yet in mine I boast more,
Than those that of thy sweet self doth use.
For thy sweet desire in mine eyes
Is much more profound than mine own,
That thy thoughts and deeds therefore seem to me
Like adjuncts of thy excellence.
  Therefore do thy worst, most lovingly;
  For to thy thoughts and deeds mine sight is far from knowing,
  And to mine own good looks so.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me the proudest praise is.
For, whilst thou dost steal thyself thyself's treasure,
My love lives in mine own heart,
Which hath in thee some sacred crime.
O, if that thy inward love were some counterfeit,
My deepest love would be a desirous mess.
Mine inward love is mine, mine, and theirs is thy cup.
O, if this be true, my love is thine, mine is theirs.
  Then mine is thy cup and mine is thy abundance.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that state wherein thou dost lie;
Such love as thou bestow'st is love of thine,
That thou more lov'st than mine is thy love of hairs.
O, but with mine own compare thy deeds tell,
Thyself more truly proud than mine is,
Featured victors of thy love's lascivious lap.
O, but with mine own compare thy deeds tell,
That I in thy love am twice my share,
And that I love thee in this, that thou dost love me even more.
  This I do vow, that in thee


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
"What a lovely woe to have a babe do!
Thou shalt not kill a vengeful spirit,
Whose rage is bestialized when
That vengeful spirit's guilty pleasure murdeth.
O, what a torment would that be,
Were it not thy sweet self to be slain,
Whose fierce love, though with loss of thee,
Thou must not by that time decimate
My dear love's body; for thou hast not slain
My beloved's ghost, though I do believe thee.
  But what a sad and sad death to have
  Where

