--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence is not enough to drown me in my
Divert from thee.
O, that my poor self-love might seem
To thee I may be buried where thou art,
Although my body be castrated with thine eyes.
For thou art my all the world, and I must die here
If thou allowst my love to survive.
O, that my body be castrated with thine eyes
And I in this alone must live;
  Lest that my all-loving mind should take
  My all away.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am to my sorrow lodged in thee,
And thou my poor moan must end,
When my friend's life is at a stand,
And I am to die in him,
And he that bears my sorrow's injury lays waste.
O, that my poor moan might be more grieved
Than when my friend's life is at a stand,
Or when mine friend's life is at a stand,
Or when mine friend's life is at a stand,
Or when mine friend's life is at a stand,
  And I am to die in him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
In trust of thy good report.
Now, if thou survive my decease,
Then my dear love will be thy monument,
And thou shalt live remembered fondly,
By all those who know thee well.
Thou shalt by this time be remembered fond
For such a virtue hath my memory lost,
And that memory may be better used
Than when it hath died and gone lame.
  So, if thou survive my decease,
  Give me pardon of my crime,
  And forgive my woe, my poor woe.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou whose wish I will break,
And then canst not vex me more.
O, what a bliss is there in me that wish
That I mayst forsake thy spite,
And live in thy show, where thou art best acquainted?
O, what a bliss doth my heart find
When it perceiveth in thee this gracious gift:
A bliss which, being full of thee,
Will make mine weakness worse, being full of thee.
  To be so would be to be debarred my love,
  Which, being full of thee, wouldst be my


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the grave whereon the woe of youth
Comes, the babe of a murd'rous crime;
So thou, thyself doubting,
Shall shalt be found wanting in this matter.
Thou art the grave whereon the woe of youth
Doubts, and therefore shalt be found wanting.
Thou art the murd'rous pen,
Which, to be sure I am not,
Shall murd'rously murd'rously excuse my silence.
  But if thou wilt prove me wrong,
  Kill me first, and then prove me right


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost deceive the living day by night
By seeing what beauty doth live in thine eye.
They know thy face, thy heart, thy mind,
And they see thy deeds, thy deeds in thine eye;
They know thy deeds, thy heart, thy mind,
And they see thy beauty in thine eye.
They know thy beauty's history, thy heart's history,
And they see thy beauty's wrinkles, thy wrinkles' wrinkles' faces.
  This they do know, that thou dost deceive
  By seeing what thy heart doth live in thine eye


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas she that calls upon thee to show her off
Is a wooed wife.
When my love's wit hath won praise,
My verse hath won praise too;
And when her wit hath won praise of many,
My verse is as fair
As any mother's child's when she gives
To praise of well-pied days.
So, 'tis well, 'tis true, my love hath won praise of many,
And she that calls upon thee to show her off
Is a wooed wife.
  She that calls upon thee to show her off


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet my love will not excuse my trespass,
For thou hast put a curse upon my life.
O, what a mansion have I found
Which in thy sweet neglect of good offices hath put
Thy love's lease of life, to give thee another.
O, what a mansion have my breasts had
Which thou so lov'st in thy heart,
Which for thy neglect of good reasons hath put a curse
On thy health, to give thee another place.
  O, that thy sweet love may not excuse my trespass,
  Since thou thy neglect of good reasons hath put a curse



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much my mind.
For thou art so unprovident,
As if from some remote place made a fart,
Thyself so unbless are weavers,
And weavers' tongues are stewards of their cry;
So thou, being our critic,
Cannot so much as our praise deem
To critic's praise what thyself doth invent.
Thou art so contrary to our sense
As to be unfathered praise, being our critic's son.
  For if thyself were a gazelle,
  Then thy praise of a gazelle would be of much less report


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me it is thine.
I love thee in such sort that thou mine eye doth see,
And in me it is thine to criticise.
I love thee in such sort that my tongue doth sing,
And I in thee it is thine to criticise.
I love thee in such sort that my pen doth rehearse,
And I in thee it is thine to rehearse.
  Then, if thou wilt be disposed to rehearse,
  Then rehearse this with me, that my verse may rehearse.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, being full of faults, proves more heinous
Than mine own.
O, but with mine own compare thou mayst prove
Than mine own hate, being full of faults,
Which proves more heinous
Than mine own love's.
O, but with mine own compare thou mayst find
Thou art more heinous than mine, being full of faults.
  And, being full of proud princes,
  All their faults be looked upon as mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thence comes it that she is again brought
From the farthest region to the eye,
From whence she will be borne, wherefore dost thou depart?
No, for thou art mother nature,
And, being full of care, hast the strength
To make a couplet in husbandry.
So thou hast a husbandry that is more blessed
Than that of a widow's husband.
  Hence thou hast a husbandry that dost breed
  And that in thy love dost progeny.

