--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white despair.
I have seen thee frowning on the world,
Thy dial how thy beauty may make opaque
To the wide world and all her fading sweets.
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my thoughts
Haply I think on thee, and then my heart's thought
Makes 'er a wretch beauteous mother,
And thou gav'st me thine unused child.
  Yet this thy thought kills me that I cannot remove thy moan.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a plea can speak,
As 'twixt a gilded tomb and a beggar sits
Upon the face of eternal summer
Who steals men's eyes and women's souls,
And turns their beauty to silver?
Ah, but men steal men's eyes and women's souls,
And burn dead men's souls with women's fuel
  And even live in wombs that sin by wombs should live.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed
By force of will, of trust, of tongue, of heart,
But by thy will shall, I swear.
And keep this in view till I have seen him depart
From thy heart, from thy heart's pleasure,
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
  Then give him leave, and make him come out again
  As I do him who doth live in thy green.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath put on thy side another's burden.
In this cross-examination shall I witness trust
Thy adverse party hath put on thy side;
That's for me to trust, not for thee;
That's for thee to trust no more than thou art
Within the level of the level of my dull bearer.
No more need I then need thee to trust;
That's for me to trust thy heart,
And thy good report is to trust no more.
  But do thy worst, and let my seat vituperate
  Where thou art forced to break a twofold


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But, thou art assured mine,
Thy pyramids built far exceed my estimate;
My judgment lies in thy control,
And, thy imaginary age, is it not thy cold?
Ay me, but thou mayst my wood lend,
Whose influence is thine own.
Thou art the master of thy hours,
And thy hours are measured from thy hand,
Which made them clock and shade,
Making old age and height compare.
  Thus have I slept in thy course untainted do allow,
  And taught thy age to youth what thy days taught.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no name;
But, like prayers divine, they look
At thy face, thy dear merit;
Till whatsoever star that guides their moving
Points on thy defects and gives scope.
And thou, to my palate urge,
Might I not add that sweetness
To my hungry bosoms bide each cup,
Although in thy glass I see it;
And, churls, it hath my heart.
  Then, if ever that star that guides my moving
  Then thou wilt be all my gain and me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who made her old murd'rous shame new.
The lascivious beast that bears me dead,
Hath no spirit of thine to breed,
But that she bears my cross,
And bears it out even to the edge of doom.
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
More sharp to my grief than spurring to his side;
He answers with a groan, less sharp to me.
  She answers with a look,
  Which wid'rous looks seem to me strange.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I not seen thee frown on my frown,
Lose me by thine own bright eyes when thou art gone?
Thou art all the better part of me
If thou stick my double to my purpose,
A perfect tiered one;
My bad, though better than thy good,
Do not so; my good allow?
Be thou the tenth captain, ten times happier than thou art
And ten times happier than thou art.
  And thou mine, thy great gift, ten times happier me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than vulgar scandal.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And every tongue doth rehearse,
Making a famine where abundance lies.
But when from highmost pitch with scarcely swift motion
To tender do I ensconce me here
Within the gentle salving of winter's day,
And in the lease hath my thunder impregnable.
  Therefore thou shalt be blamed of all hearts
  And tongues that the world wide can speak.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that their thought is better than theirs.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And my false esteeming accelerate;
Increasing store with loss and loss with store;
My friend, mine eye in thee,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
And all those jacks that apple peep doth peep,
Stealing thy treasure from thy sight.
  Their images I view in thee,
  And thou, all I hast eyes, gav'ring my all.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Compare thy sufferance with that state which I in thy heart doth belong.
Thou art better than high birth to me,
Richer than high birth to me, of higher learning,
Being wooed of time, of happier spies, of farther learning.
Thou art much more temperate than that thou art,
Beggared of all bonds to time,
And me twice converted are.
  But here's the joy: my love is new,
  And thy dear merit hath not kept pace.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on
Nor rocks impregnable height with ugly rack;
Therefore to thy sensual shame thou send'st
Thy edge deformedifies and curls all the better.
Rocks impregnable are not so stout
Nor gates of steel so strong, though they strangle the better.
Be thou the tenth rack, ten times more in worth
Than those jacks that run tall and straight.
  To these beagles I send my most bright eyes
  And watch the clock for thee, from hence thou wilt be forgotten.

