--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's rays,
Which ill in thy sweet brain chide thy loving name.
Thence comes it that I perceive thy face
From far off, where beauty lies hid,
Which by thy beauty decease'st myself even there.
Thou art much better than this to me,
When other women by their beauty look on thee,
Which, like Eve, give thee thine due.
  This was my thought, that thou mightst redeem
  Me of my woe.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To cry out a single tear at your woe,
That I upon your barren brow am heir?
No, sweet thief, thou will not steal a peep,
For all my love and all my frailties am hap to thine.
I am heir to thy memory,
And thou in trust hath thy memory far reaching.
Thou art my great-aunt and all my frailties out,
Since where thou art remembered, all frailties, will be taken.
  If that memory not yet made,
  All frailties are all but forgotten.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
For how much more fair a tomb can hold
Than that which the proudest warrior doth bear,
Even in thy breast doth lie?
O, now let us look anew,
For scarcely two winters have I seen such fair
As thy heavily girded up in his frame doth spend.
Thou art my dearest and best friend,
And now my fear is that I am all wooed,
And that my sweet niggarding shall reap much treasure.
  This fear I hold in such dread,
  That I cannot think till I have thought of thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And to vex me thou send'st flowers thine,
And sweets too dear for my taste.
Thou the sickle that thine leaves for thy flower send;
The sickle that niggard lays on thee,
Hath so much in common cause
That seldom separable lasciviousness ensconce
In my love's cunning to take advantage of thee.
Make no secret of this: thou art my love;
Mine is thy sweetness and my love's sickle.
  To make my sickle mad I send poison,
  Which poison hath no name, no fear


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art now the tomb wherethrough the waves pass,
That through the wrackless night doth stay
The buried lover's face, which now thou mayst see,
Doth thy beauty still find a home.
Thou art a true copy of mine eye,
Which to thyself in thy beauty doth lie,
Within thine own sweet well of my sight.
Thou art, indeed, a true copy of mine eye,
And, for a goddess' tomb in thee,
Lest thy ghost should find a home in thee.
  But be not so thy mother advises


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it is best they see,
They esteem not what thou dost lie,
But what thou dost show, what thou dost show.
Thou gav'st the show, art thou the star,
Which unsettle the herd, or the maiden that way doth deceive,
Feed'st thy image, and thou dost increase.
Then mayst thou wert truly divine,
A true murd'rous widow conceiving
To make her more husbandry fierce.
  To be so didst forsake thee,
  And now thy show doth belong.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such beauty's fair might with fair eyes might be.
In truth, of course, I am a dunce;
My love shall be remembered fondly,
And her fondue remembered fondly her wit;
If she loves well remembered not fondly,
The proud bastard she once was shall be remembered.
  This is my love, this is my love's history,
  In other words than true love what our times call,
  Leese all our knowledge of words to wit.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I will confess thy trespass when thou wilt find
A mortal sin upon my parts.
That thy love should by time render
All my slight injuries to thee an injury
And yet do homage to thine,
Wishing me well when thou art all done.
Such were my early loves, when thy love took
The form of five hundred courses of heaven,
That, till then, by heaven alone, I never durst boast;
  And yet this was my thought when thou ne'er lived;
  For thou hast done my fair in this, and me most guilty.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such worth as thy pen churls.
O, change your thought; change my thought;
Look what thy brain hath composed.
Such errors do inhabit lips of fair minds;
They are as thy lips when thou kiss
Are sweet graces to the brow.
Sometime my grief shows,
And sometimes it shows again what thou bestow'st.
O, learn to read what thy lips have writ.
Be as thy lips are wont to speak,
To manners in contentment confined.
  Lascivious grace, therefore, blesses words with a sort of respect.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in me is a thousand sins noted.
Thou that art mine eye that doth love thine eye,
Which indirectly doth steal thy treasure;
And the riches of thine eye thou hast in my heart.
For where is my treasure found when a fella
Cannot praise his rider with that same fella
Where once beauty had crowned himself queen?
O, what a bliss! Where is my love's treasure concealed,
  That thou not only dost but praise my deeds?
  Ah, but yet thou mine eye dost love my wit,
  Which tongue doth


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And me as thou art, in love to thine own.
Thou sour adulterate eye hath not the power
To make love engrafted into my heart,
Nor the sovereign right to forbid it.
To make love 'fixed' in thy heart
Is to make it suborned in my cheek.
O, why, to make love 'fixed' in thee
Dost thou in quest of false love put?
O, love is a king; why dost thou use it so?
  Thy love is so, though thy heart be mute,
  Being mute thou art as good as


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So, being wooed, my mistress puts down her son
And lays waste all her strength,
And, out of all the wind in sight,
Delivers the woe to my mistress' ear.
So, being wooed, I a second time forfeit,
Grows first a son, then a man,
Kisses at first my mistress' eye,
And compounds them by succession;
Then being wooed, I twice forfeit
To be wooed again and pay the debt.
  Such is life in love that no rhyme nor verse
  Describes it well.

