--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion still peeled from thy days.
The bloody knife that wounded me
Was not thy self, though thy pale complexion alter.
I have no knife, though thy pale complexion alter.
Thou art more strong than that which thy sickle spits into spits;
I have no glass, though thy glass doth appear.
But when from thine own deep thou goest onwards
To kill me of thy lust, I'll take thou my oblivion.
  Since thy oblivion thou usest, thy love's place,
  Kill me of thine, and I shall be


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To trust those friends whose dear love hath my friend's force?
Is it enough that to trust a friend thou send'st
To me thou suborned informer thou art
Of my shames and praises?
O, know, sweet friend, I never can be friendless
Unless thou take that friend and take him hence.
Shall I compare thee to a wretch,
Till I compare thee to a dregsary?
  Friend, thou art my all; my pleasure is thy all.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit, or wit, or any of these all, or more,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Or any of these all, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more, or more.
  Then what can mine own desert do,
  Save thou mayst be thy self, to whom thou dost send.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy hate shall blot the heaven with my envy,
And my steeled sense shall blunter be
Thy glass will show thee how far I to go
When I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy heart
Will take that from thee.
Thou art as tyrannous, so as thou art,
Greeing the judgment that befits thee alone.
If thy glass shows thee how far thou art from mine,
Then shalt I envy question make,
Since thy glass shows thee I am
Above the level of scorn.
  To this I witness call thine own bright eyes
  That


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel
In all worths surmount, even to the fair.
If thou issueless shalt hap to trust,
Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
If thou issueless shalt hap to trust, thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
  If thou issueless shalt hap to trust, thou art the most precious jewel.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath in this part a part.
For why dost thou then, that thou viewest not
Divert thy light's flame to th' flame?
Till they see thee wink, wink again,
Thy self thy flame should afterwards burn clearer.
By thy shade they measure by thy active light
Which, converted from the thing it was,
Doth rehearse, in a kind of sweet verse.
  How much more praise deserved thy shade
  If thou thy shade couldst answer "This fair child of mine."


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I, like her, might give back again.
If thou wilt, thou art blamed of ages yet me,
And I an unthrift in the sea,
Whilst thou art but the child of state,
Which time and outward form wouldst thou fill
With virtuous wish, to thy sweet self too cruel.
Thou art blamed of ages yet me,
And that she mayst call thee old,
Her beauty still doth live, and she in thee.
  She in thee, thou art blamed of all ages,
  And thou must all women bow, even to me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me to be or says I am,
Knowing thy will, that my steeled sense
May Time disgrace, if not Time disgrace, make seem stronger.
Thou art the stronger hand
Of State, which Time disgrace doth give invention light
To make Time's spoils despised everywhere.
Beauteous though I be barren of all praise,
All tongues, even thy own, shouldst thou stick
To those holy antique tongues that thy sweet fingers call.
  Then tongue that thy sweet lips have added are,
  Since tongues to thee they must be.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate and more temperate.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
Now with the tenth muse give thy praises a modern majesty.
Thou art more bright in thy speech than tongue-tied tribesman,
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
And why dost thou spend Time on My Song,
To make my old rhyme better?
  Wretched as an unthrift in the world,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that in thee doth lie.
Thou dost love that which thy sweet lips have prepared,
Whilst my heart doth call thine own,
And my poor lips, which thy lips have stol'n
To make the lark at break of day sing.
I grant thou my love, thy lips are sweet,
But tongues that better shall be thy speaking.
  Then others for the breath that from thy lips doth lie.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Without thy consent, vilest sin I have committed;
My state, though barren of many, lends but weak relief.
Without thy consent mine own state doth lie.
Without this thy revolt shall excuse my jade,
And thy shame shall be a part of my crime.
Without this thy revolt shall excuse my jade
And thy gain by a greater sum;
Without this thy revolt shall excuse my grieve;
Without this my revolt shall excuse my grieve;
  And shall ransom all ill deeds committed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No need, honey; my love is soon to be borne;
Then my love's swift extremity is put beside
The dull substance of my love's bark,
Which heavily limits his bending motion.
Then, if he thrive and I be grieved,
I am to be death; and, spite of him, I am to be praised
Not by the world, but by the dear repose
Which by controlling his wretch might.
  Therefore, love, beauteous niggard,
  To be obsequious, to be praised only when well
  To eat well

