--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In singleness the wights of love's loving breast;
Nativity, once in the main of light,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
And Time that gave doth now his gift confound.
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
Feeds on the riper's truth,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
  And yet to times in hope my verse shall stand,
  Praising thy worth, despite


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no fault there is no remedy that I think is best.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet, for still with my poverty,
I forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty; and yet love's use
Thy self thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
He was not self-willed, nor mine own dear love's flame to flame;
So that I in this huge rondure he under thee did bring forth
The burden of a worthier pen.
He should in thought, of worth do define
His worth, being frank, will not dull the substance of his mind,
Or, being frank, he may be straight redeem.
So let him, by thy worth, by thy deeds,
Be not self-willed, for thou he was of thee.
  To him that calls on thee, let him bring forth


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee I can give
That due of thee which is not enough.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy?
Be it not for my love to sourly strangle,
Nor thy sweet issue more than thy love doth belong.
Kind is my love today, tomorrow kind,
Still constant in a wondrous excellence;
Therefore my love's beauty shall in my verse ever live;
Whether love be mine, thy love be thy love, or thy love be self-loving.
  So, be thou, myself, and for love this,
  Unlooked on thee in me


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is the sin of murd'rous hate that 'gainst thy right;
It is the lesser sin
That in thy face sweet thief, if ever be,
If ever thought on thy face,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
A goddess of woe to thee,
And by thy deeds to myself I do forgive
That in thy face sweet thief, if evermore be,
Shall reasons find but by thy deeds;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease,
And by thy deeds must not be blamed;
  Thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it finds the gilded monuments of honor razed
Where it finds buried age more short than waste.
Then, if for my love receivest by thy sight,
I do forgive thy robb'ry,
And do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Steivor thou to my robb'ry, not blame,
For thou present'st a strong offense
To plea for love, which shall be thy love's story.
  I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
  And thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I saw her beauties proudly placed,
And for that sweet thief which sourly robs thee of and pays it thee again.
That she hath not the power to hurt,
To do more for me than spurring to thee
If like a willing shoemaker she can mend
And mend the style with thy hours;
If ever that her methods can mend,
And do not so much of thee shame.
I grant, when thou wilt, if ever can mend,
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
  But since she pricked thee out of all her hate,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thyself thy other place.
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem
And gives thy own widow another place,
That thou in thy parts do qualify
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
To be so tickled they would change their numbers
And do not change their minds after thee;
So, love, be they change their numbers
And take thee all their loving parts of thee.
  And do not change their day of happy hours,
  Or any of thee, you, do them better.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How much more in praise than in my verse can sit?
O, let not be obsequious in thy verse,
And let not be obsequious in thy praise,
And let not be praised of many,
But let not be the beauteous raim of Nature,
Nor praise her for being dumb,
She belied with manners,
And her for being praised of many, seeming to thee,
And her for her dumb humor doth win her out;
  And her for her dumb humor doth seem woe,
  By adding one thing to my dumb list.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy face doth my mind, which alters when they deem
Is writ in moods and frowns and shake.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is a babe.
Then, if they please their manners,
 be more temperate and more temperate,
Than in their thoughts of hate be be unfathered,
And they that be they for their crime are not offenders.
Be not self-willed, for thou art much more temperate and in thy face
To be more temperate and in thy mind.
  To be gentle and in thy face.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With all external grace, against myself I sin,
That I in thy love's form may be abused.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
 honor me more than in my verse can be
And in thy praise thereof mayst true love honor me.
  But if my slight muse do give thee thyself doth invent,
  The argument all bare is of more worth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake, thou my verses,
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
And puts not parallels in beauty's pattern
To find out shames and idle hours in table of beauty's truth.
For there can live no more praise in my verse
But, for she hath no more praise,
And beauty for she belied with false compare,
May not evermore praise her,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
And gives not to his glory fight.


