--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty,
Cannot soothe the wrack they make of thee.
O, change thy thought, that I may see
Thy eyes, which by thy loving are wrought,
Save where thou art not. Thy eyes, being famished,
Save where thyself thou art,
Save where thyself thou art, being famished.
O, change thy thought, that I may see
Thy eyes, which by thy loving are wrought,
Save where thyself thou art, being famished.
  This, and this, and this, and this, and


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must be fair in thy heart?
O, no; in mine is the strength that mine is best.
I have no jealousy of other men's looks,
Nor mine own love of mine own eyes is my glory.
Nor mine own true love of mine own eyes is my praise.
Nor mine own true love of mine own eyes is my praise.
Nor mine own true love of mine own eyes is my praise.
  And yet mine own true love is mine and mine alone.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
My abundant love's spoils.
Now thou shalt see the lascivious state
Which leases love's spoils to thine own eyes,
And thou shalt be the first to witness it;
And if it be true, thou shalt be a witness
Of love's lease to thine own eye.
Thou shalt be thine witness, and I swear
That thou witness will truly prove my love.
  But if it be false, thou shalt be a witness
  To love's lease to thine own eye.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose love hath my love's lease, and therein found,
Thou art the better part of me.
So thou, when I have asked thee to pardon,
Thou dost beguile me, and I am glad
That my spite hath not shaken my nerves much.
But if thou wilt do that, so be my sorrow;
Thou art much more glad I have found thee.
  If my sorrow be thy wish, thou wilt be mine.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the grave where buried love's sweet body lies,
And buried love's sweet blood is found
Within the bosom of love's eternal home.
So thou hast passed by this place where buried love lives,
And, having passed by the grave where buried love lives,
Through the grave is found thy sweet self,
Which, out of love's eternal home,
Sinks to the grave where thou art buried.
  Then, having passed this way thou art buried,
  Being buried with love's dead is better than being buried with thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it is best they behold it,
They look it up, not down,
But see where it is best they see,
And therein doth beauty's charter,
To make the world's eye see what it perceivest
Is best concealed in thy breast.
Thou art so much more bright than our sun
To the deep ocean and the deep west
Which parts the shore where thou art,
Or, if thou live in the west, in the east
  To the deep sea and the deep west where thou art.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might say she loved me but in truth
Is as fair a dress as a lamb's head.
So thou shalt not be myer than my verse,
Thou art better disposed to rhyme
Than tongue that calls thy name.
Thou hast much more in common with me than tongue
That calls my name in false registers to deceive.
  For thy rhyme I must translate,
  As if from thee a child had it.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not slanderous in my speaking,
For I am thy advocate,
And my argument in good faith shall win
The crown of truth.
If thou wilt, like me, be unfathered,
The judgment of my tongue will be my argument,
And my verse shall win the prize of truth.
Be not slanderous in my speaking,
For I am thy advocate,
And my argument shall win the crown of truth.
  If thou wilt, like me, be unfathered,
  The judgment of my tongue will be my argument,
  And my verse shall win the prize


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immoderate gravity as thy vulgar pen.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth than mine,
Than mine own pen hath in common a hundred lines to sing.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth than mine,
Ten times more in ten minutes' worth than mine,
Ten times more in ten seconds' worth than mine;
Ten times more in ten minutes' worth than mine;
Ten times more in ten seconds' worth than mine.
  Thus art I, ten times, ten times happier than thou art,
  For ten times more, ten


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me thou dost love them as thy heart doth sing.
Thou art my equal in love and hate is thine,
Therefore I will thy deeds, and thine in me shalt be.
Thou dost love me more than I in thy breast,
And that in me thou dost give glory.
O, what a mansion have those poor eyes for!
They have seen thy beauty and thy cheek,
And they have praised thee for it.
Then, what a mansion have they built up for thee!
  Thou art the fairest and most precious jewel in me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy love is more evident
Than mine own.
O, but with mine own compare thou thy deeds find,
And thy love's scope more enlarged.
O, but with mine own compare thy deeds find,
Thou, me, mine is the more true of things.
Our times are brief, and therefore thy love's scope is enlarged.
O, but with mine own compare thy deeds find,
Thou, me, mine is the more true of things.
  To be truly loved of this I must be false,
  To be truly untrue of good men.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The victor is crowned queen,
And by her is crowned a son;
For beauty's first prize is in the babe's
Hast thou, which is crowned queen,
And by her is crowned a son;
And thou, whom thyself art wont to depart,
Sets her down to the task of husbandry.
O, that thy sweet virtue may be well esteemed,
Thou art so beloved of many,
That in thy breast thou mayst taste their sweet blood.
  This is thy beauty's first prize,
  And thou, to this end, shall be queen

