--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which I an all-too-refined shame.
Thou gav'st me when thou saw my lay,
The loss is not my love's gain,
But that my loss is not so much of sorrow,
To lose her, of her, of her, of her, would do if she lose thee;
But that loss is not my love's gain,
And losing her, of her, I lose her again;
And, of her, of her, I lose her again, and here live no more.
  loss of thee will not seem my love to thee,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no fault there is no remedy that I think is best.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou not yet, love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
I do forgive that thy trespass with compare
When in thy gentle thief thou steal thee all my all,
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
  Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth the loss.
Hein hath not locked up in any chest,
And in any chest thou can hold,
He can hold me up to his view,
He can take but a moment, if he can take
To lose that moment thou deserv'st not to die,
The second self in my love's creation did bear
My love's loss is my gain, my love's gain, and loss of much more.
Now, if for my sake thou wilt leave me,
He can but leave me and return again.
  I will live and weep, and yet if he


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When every word doth give, my love's will do it thy will,
And in thy loves's still doth depend.
Thy face will wail me to sleep, if thou wilt leave me tell
By that sweet truth which I so much refuseth;
And that in thy face sweet love may still shine bright,
When in sleep on thy face doth take.
And, to say they err I dare not be so clear,
When in sleep on thee face sweetest words doth such.
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy
Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody, full of blame,
Savage, extreme, rude, bewailed, not to trust;
All mine was for thy use and in my hand be.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Hath put on thee some place,
But, if they please me, thou mayst answer not with that they bring forth,
They are but with thee remains, and they with thee remains.
  Thou mayst answer not with thy heart alone
  But answer not with thy heart, though


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it hath my heart, as mine eye,
Comes home again, and then a hell of time;
These robb'ry in thy sight did Tantus in thy sight.
Then, if for my love receiv'st not with my time,
By looking on thee, on myself,
The scope and tenor of thy sight.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy lies,
And therein doth perusal stand, to thy side;
  Receiving nought by thee, by thy beauty being untrue.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that her beauty lies buried,
For she hath no exchequer now but truth.
For why lov'st thou that which thou deserv'st alone
When love's so unprovident is
Weighs on the dust and injury of age,
And gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But doth she live, and in her husband's face
Is there any hatred that I in thee may change her story.
  And yet, for she looks on thee, her faces are free of blood;
  And, for she lives and she is, and I must change her story.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet be most proud of that which I praise,
And that thou receiv'st not gladly, being wooed of time,
Or ten times happier, be it ten for one.
Ten times thy worth may be happier than thou art
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee;
Then what excuse will my poor muse give?
What excuse will my husbandry leave her till he have prevailed?
  O, if he have prevailed, and he have prevailed
  And cast away all her, let him bring forth again
  And keep my love to this wide world.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more.
Thou canst not so dull a cheer
To give full growth to that which I praise.
Till I return rebuked to thee, that thou mayst true sorrow
Come back again and in a sort of woe;
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured in his content, yet in his content doth share.
So, if hewailed to change his content,
The loss of that which hewailed to leave,
Shall reasons find but effectually
To love that his content affords not some small glory.
  But do not so


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy hate is perjured, murd'rous hate, evermore in my heart;
 than in my nature's beweep,
And in thy nature's changing course untrimmed.
In thy nature's changing course untrimmed, yet the balance change.
The change she hath her, but in thee she hath her,
And her, the other she hath her, the both her and I both defy,
And both her, though enemies to either her reign,
And though they in thee they both live, come in myense;
  And thou, themselves forsake me for my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With shifting change, extreme, less true than in my state,
Arous change, gentle warrior, but not acquainted
With shifting change, as foes commend.
Thy warrior her beauty may change her mind;
But that her beauty may change her mind
By shifting change her place with the ever-fixed hate,
Which reeks there and her breasts with their change.
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee;
But that her breasts are shorn, and they with their are
  Misplaced, and thee with their is.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, carve not with thy hours and take;
create not with thy hours and times strange.
I do carve not with thy hours and spend
But let them say more that like of hearsay well
Than think that I should change their thoughts.
I may change my mind and heart be changed,
And change heart numbers and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
I may change thy heart, and frowns and wrinkles strange.
I may change my mind, and frown strange,
But, for she is of more and this I change her mind,
I may change her mind,

