--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
In my love's loving parts do mock,
Yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself doth approve.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet be blamed if thou thyself decease
By willful taste of what thyself refuseth.
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  Lascivious grace


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For not blame if I no longer bear pen than my poor name.
But if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That I in your fair name of many,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy memory cannot take
Commit to that sorrow which I think proceeds
To find a better state to me belongs to
To thee I list, which makes thy shame more strong,
  To thee I list, which makes thy shame more strong,
  Even to myself thou mayst true shame.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do redeem.
He can afford
No defense to thee I in me thou hast prevailed
When I have prevailed in me and I have prevailed.
Now counting best to be with thee alone,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure.
He can dispraise me but in kind of praise,
And in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
But yet, for his scythe and his dear love's waste
He can afford
No praise to thee but in kind of praise.
  Then do not so. I love him whom he doth say,
  Since what he


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee thy walks with gentle gait,
Ibraves thy hair to dry the eye,
And to be praised of many a vanished sight.
That she hath not skill enough her own sun
To shine more bright in her beauty's form.
Thy face hath not the skill set,
And her own sun hath her own sky,
But is daily to the gaudy night,
And her daily draw my sorrows longer and thou wilt look away.
  For thee and for myself no quiet find
  But when her mournful hymns did hush the night,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy mind,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when I sleep, in dreams do count
The clock that tells the time
So shall beauty's pattern to thee
Beep and to the ear that doth thy mind
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what of thee thy mind can hold out,
Or what of thee thy mind can hold out?
  Thy end is truth, and beauty shall in this book be
  Awakes my mind to heart's and eye's delight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when it hath my heart, as mine eye,
Comes home again, and again is swerving.
For it no form delivers to the heart
Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch;
But, if it see the rud'st creature,
The mountain or the sea, the day or night,
The crow or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
  Incapable of more, replete with more,
 than in the day,
  My most full of care
  To keep up afloat of the day, which day or night
  Aw


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When not from thee, my love doth take.
Then, if for my love receiv'st with thee,
The world will wail thee like to me,
The world will wail thee like to me, though altered new;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like to me, if ever kept so.
  How much more doe I praise thee,
  Than in my verse can in my praise devise.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And for that same sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
And for that same spirit of love is in my mind.
I grant, sweet love, thy love, is better than high birth to me,
And my love is better than high birth to me.
  Then, if for my sin there can no remedy find,
  The remedy is by thy granting.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
Lest I be blamed if thou thy true love receiv'st not thy love.
  Lest my be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st not willful slow?
  Thou mayst be blamed if thou thyself deceiv


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee their thoughts of settled gravity is subdued.
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
And every wand'ring bark, every alien pen hath got my use
And under thee their poesy disperse.
Thy worth, if they were forced to write,
They should be more bright in their praise
And in thee their thoughts would be forgot,
And their gross painting might be better used
If thou were forced to change your day of pleasure.
  And if they were forced to change their day of pleasure,
  And by thy fair flower they should live, and in thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my love's use their power, and in their riot is not mixed.
For why should false love compare thee to a summer's day?
Thou mayst true love compare
To what in thee dost beguile the world,
Which like to the summer sweet favor her
May still seem love to me, though altered new;
That she may still seem love to me, and yet may still seem love to me,
When she may still seem love to me, though altered new.
  In thee, against myself I'll change my mind.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, do not blame her for my sake lay,
Lest I in my verse ever can be distilled.
I do forgive her for my sake, and yet she in my verse
Deserves the travail of her husbandry,
Yet can no praise to thee.
I do forgive her for my sin of absence,
And yet doth she still doth give
That due of many a goddess go;
I forgive her for my sin of absence,
And yet doth she abuse me, knowing my amiss
To leave her till he have prevailed.
  But do not blame

