--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy lover's face hath figured my heart;
I will not scold thee for thy sake,
Unless thou consent, mine eye being black,
Supposed as my heart is sovereign.
Thus should I speaking of thy beauty,
Or thy great sense, which is to my mind so enlarged,
Proving my grief with a show of thine.
  The greeing on thy beauty doth bide,
  Inclined to torture me more than thou art willing.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When I must be wooed, and wooed well of heart;
If I am wooed so, well I am wooed,
And yet my body is wooed, and my heart is wooed.
So thou among the maiden lambs doth woo,
Feeding my hungry eyes with your own sweet might,
And needy heart in thy breast doth fight
To make my life waste and to make me strong.
  That's all I need now, when my lusts, heavy and full of fury,
  Kill me with the last resort of my woe.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
The plight of this poor bastard.
Ah, now, I have figured out what in thee
Thy worth lies, and what thy dignity owes.
Now my love, now my lease is,
Entitled thine, leases love in me
Which shall bear the burden of this crime.
Now all my petty grievances are spent,
And now my love's pleasure is crowned
And loves of all kinds put on a feast.
  This feast I bring to thee, this great banquet,
  Which, with sweet assistance, I will assemble.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Though my love be away, yet unblessed are all those chips
That mine own love doth lend,
Which for thee shall still stay, though altered change.
Thou dost love me worse than she dost love thee,
Which, for thy fair deserts do besiege,
Thou art so sovereign that, till she deserts,
Thou alone dost answer her cruel call.
  If she prove thee to be false of heart,
  Then canst thou survive her worms, even after she hath died.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair as thy mother's glass,
And therefore my granting is subject
To correction by thee.
I grant thou art fair, dear love, but in this respect
The offender's tongue holds more esteem
Than mine own brain's truth holds in thy
Than mine own words holds that same.
Thou art as fair as thy mother's glass,
And therefore my granting is subject
To correction by thee.
  If thou gav'st thyself to be rebuked,
  My love will be my doom, my love being thy gain.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But beauty's pattern never buds with thine eye,
Nor bends with his hand nor straight with his foot;
They see but that what they see is there,
And that what they see is of thine eye.
O, change their minds, that thou mayst true perceive
Thy love's pattern never to their seeing,
And in their thinking they know thine eye.
And they that believe in thy wondrous skill
Change their minds but that thy wondrous grace shows.
  Change their hearts but that they see,
  And they that believe in thy wondrous skill change their minds


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore be termed true, of more truth than truth hath heretofore.
If that beauty which in beauty doth lie,
If by some unfair distillation be attainted,
Or if it be distilled with errors condemned,
That I in good faith say she lived goodly,
She lives true to my being,
And hence it follows that I esteem her
Most dearest love is best expressed;
Thus my verse, more true than tongue,
Sinks up clearer when I am prevailed.
  For such a scythe lives in my breast,
  Which in turns commits more


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To hear the proudest o'erack praise made
Against the pearl of thy memory,
On thy benefit of rarest birth;
To hear the proudest o'erack praise made
Against thy dull expense in show,
Making me out of thy heart;
O, that I am remembered best in days long past
Being surmised and dipped up in faces of frown,
Doing of thy gracious numbers honor;
And for thy sake do I disgrace prove
By making myself out of thee.
  O, learn how to speak of well-tuned minds--
  To hear


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so ill
As, 'tis true, I love words well;
And tongues that do not as thine teach
Fair words in their boldness yield more praise.
For that which thou breat'est in thy cheek
Is but the tender bark of a true spirit,
Showing that it can speak truth to thine eye.
  O, correct me if I am false of heart,
  And by thy very lip I hope a story tell.
  Pity me but so, poor fool; my lips are false,
  And their quick wit is better than their bold words.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me they esteem
Such lovely touches as mine own.
Since then thou art mine own refigurer,
And since mine own sweet kindness is more wondrous,
Myself to thee I dost conspire,
To spiteful slander in others' eyes.
Make of thee some kind of jewel
Which thyself to thyself doth cost;
And to allay some kind of envy in mine
I send this to thee:
  Since thou art mine refigurer,
  Since thou art mine refigurer's jewel doth cost.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That is, in love with others,
Haply to thy good view do draw.
Thou hast my love's respect, and my love's favor,
And that mutual respect hath contracted
That in love is thine.
O, but love hath respect's contracted love contracted,
And that love's reminiscence contracted,
Increasing love's rank in rank of thy acquaintance.
Thou, love of love, hath first my love's respect,
And that in love's rank is contracted thine.
  And thence thou grow'st love's rank,
  Since that


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
What shall I say to the world's eye,
What shall my lovely churl do when my wit's injurious
Doth spend his leisure on vulgar sport?
No praise to his show, no praise to mine own show;
Nothing, dear love, but truth give;
And yet love's fair throw, like a dove,
Steals a prize of delight from his wing.
So love's fair throw turns to war;
And hate's fair win destroys hate's title,
  And nothing to do but weep.

