--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy complexion hath not oppressed me with white.
Thou art more red than thy jeans,
And therefore my hand against myself uprear
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part.
I grant thou art more red than thy hair;
I grant thou art;
And therefore thy appeal is stronger than my hand.
If thou wilt prove me wrong,
My hand against myself uprear
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part.
  For thee I grant thou art all my art,
  And I grant thou art all my art.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no man well of such a salve can speak
That heals the wound and cures not the disgrace.
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
Nor can thy praise confound me with distresses audible.
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
The offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
To him that bears the strong offense's cross.
  Ah, but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
  And they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
He that calls upon thee, let him bring forth
The second self thou deserv'st,
Self thou suborned informer;
Self thou teachest I have,
And other self thou deserv'st alone.
Thou that art left the prey of every vulgar tongue
And tongue that more hath more expressed.
Self thou teachest I have,
And other self thou teachest I have.
  Then, if for my love thou my love receiv'st,
  Then thou suborned informer; my love receiv'st is thine


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy adverse party hath put a spirit of youth in my cheek
That overgoes my gentle work, and my dull bearer
Cannot blame thee for my neglect.
Thou canst not blame thy lover for my neglect,
Unless thou take that away,
Which shall be thy chief desire, to thee I trust.
Thou canst not be blamed if thou break my neck,
Unless thou take that away.
  I will comment upon that offense,
  Since thou art blamed if thou break my neck.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of thy deceased love.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of thy deceased love.
Such a beauteous spirit is in thy humor
Which sweets grown common lose their delight.
  To him thy sweet virtue doth belong,
  And to thee thy sweet virtue doth live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it hath no name;
But, like prayers divine, they look
At thy deeds, thy parts, and,
Like prayers divine, they look
At thy blood, at thy veins;
Then, churls, their thoughts, although their eyes were kind,
At thy tables, to thy heart's delight.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue
Finding thy tables, to thy heart's delight.
  To thy tables thine own sweet well befits,
  To thy heart's delight even in thy deeds.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath her own vision, though not so bright
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's night.
But when I saw them built in secret ceremony,
They were but dressings of a less truth.
They were but dressings of a kind,
Which heaven's air in this huge rondure hems;
So my mistress' eyes were but dressings of a kind,
Which heaven's air in this huge rondure sings.
  She hath her eyes, but tongues are not her feature,
  And tongues are thine and only children of men.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So thou mayst my bad, thy good allow?
Thou art all my bad, and I in thee
Authorizing thy bad, my good allow?
Be as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
Or to thyself at least kind-hearted,
To thyself at least kind-hearted prove.
And, to be sure that is not false I swear,
A thousand groans, but thinking on thy face,
One on another's neck do witness bear.
  To be sure that is not false I swear,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thou art more temperate than tongue.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
And summer's lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
And often is his gold complexion dimmed;
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
By chance or nature's changing course untrimmed.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor lose possession of that dear December date.
  So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
  So long lives this, and this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my bad, when in thee it is foiled.
Thy bad, thy good, is to my bad annexed.
To my bad annexed is my tongue,
Whose invention hath brought to my mind a part,
And given it a part only hereto belong.
That tongue that more hath expressed his say,
Thy bad, thy good, is to my bad annexed.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase;
Without this, folly, age, and cold decay.
  To this end I throw all care
  Of thy bad and good parts,
  And even


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thy will, mine own weakness be termed a sin.
Thou canst not, love, disgrace me half so ill,
To set a form upon desired change,
As I'll myself disgrace, knowing thy will;
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
  For thee, against myself I'll vow debate,
  For I must ne'er love him whom thou


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, as the proudest jewel from heaven
Makes her tongue bow, as the proudest jewel from heaven
Crawls to maturity, and Time's fool,
Making swift Time's darling thievish addition,
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight
To leap far from my sight,
But stops short of my praise,
And stops short of praise where my praise is
To tie up envy, to triumph and all oblivious enmity.
  She looks but with thee, and thou gav'st her tongue.

