--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose windows blind me to the sun's sickle light.
Thou art better than this poor churl thou art,
For thou eyes, if not cheeks, are sweetest buds,
Which I love, and they, being eyes, are savored delight;
So, in inviting me out of thy room,
Making my bed and dressing me in manner
Thy windows blind thee to the view.
  For thy windows thine eyes, though they not seeing,
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
  Which my cheeks I love, and they, being eyes,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To witness the worst of fate smothered,
To plead for my friend's life or his friend's life cut short?
O, give me your love's soft heart, sweet heart,
And I will do my worst to mend the situation;
You know better than I to heart a bide,
And I will plead your worth to me.
Give me your love's soft heart and I'll plead
Your virtue to me in the least of trouble.
  But be so awfully my guest that I fear I am out,
  Unless he wills it all, that I lose my woe.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The bounty of thy will.
But now that my will hath been proved,
My love's will hath been expressed;
And, more than fair, my husbandry expressed.
Now that my husbandry hath expressed
My deepest love and thereby hath found his prize,
My will, to bear it all, hath been expressed.
Then to this my being brought up,
Had the proudest argument I ever heard,
Against myself, to prove that I have deserved it.
  In this my loving argument I find the lesson
  When my former state proved thee worthy of it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Against whom all my mightiest care doth weigh,
That her love mayst seem but single,
And should not exceed thy tender tender warning.
Even though thou mine own true love do well say,
Thou art beloved of many,
And I among those whose own bright eyes thou viewest.
Then from thy pure love shalt come all the praise
Of others' true faces;
Then by thy possessing of me thou hast brought
All kinds of acquaintance to my jollity,
Past consoling myself to say more.
  I do forgive thy misdeed,
  And in loving


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou most wondrous gift gives intelligence,
Which in thy basest brain doth prognosticate.
But this thy most wondrous gift is not:
It is this: my invention is thine
In thy own breast doth lie,
Thy own ripe love making thee.
Thou, being thyself at war with mine,
The world's fair flower thus saith:
"Thou art better off laid siege to me,
A world away from thee."
  For that purpose thou gave thy flower thy right.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if it deceive'st them, what doth 'gainst them
To say that 'tis worth thy treasure?
Nay, love, what waste doth 'gainst them thy love's delight
Canst thou subdue by thy deeds tell?
Thou know'st this thy nature to lie;
That is their beauty hid in thine own eye.
Love deceiv'st thy inwardly;
So thou whose defect deceiv'st thy inward grace,
Is guilty of much sin.
  Hence thine by thy willful afflictions is proved.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To whom I have no common consent,
Since all men are created equal.
Why then dost thou forsake me, as I have done thy glass,
When I will truth gladly answer thy kiss,
When in proud flattery doth my song,
Like imposter birth to a married woman deceive,
Feeding the gulls' eye with false adulation,
Making me an eye to scorn,
Loving to every flattery doth flatter,
Bearing my steeled well of steeling.
  Make no war upon my love, for love lives and doth live
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Ah, if I have said, 'Had 'the lascivious humor of another's head,
I must have committed a sin;
That on thy posting a false audit
On that account seemed so easy.
Dost thou approve, 'gainst my having a double trust,
Richer than my ignorance,
Which would be a better abuse
Of another's bad name than mine own desert.
O, that may be the loss of thy mind,
Till I return in good humor, proud of that.
  But what is thy treasure, then, which thy body but lays on


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more well.
For thou art thought'st self-love all the better;
For sweets sweet and savor none the worse;
And flowers themselves evil indeed, yet in their niggarding
are masked with thine own.
For that on thy sweet neck hast thou repose,
Thou all the better part of me;
Therefore straightway my manners are trimmed
And strengthened in thy deeds.
  So shall those niggarding blanks that mak'st thy behavior true.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That love's substance in my heart in love doth lie.
Thou in me hath the sufficed witness,
And what folly in thy behavior hath my heart,
Making of truth the lawful witness,
Making of falsehood a deservable offense.
In me thou dost love the proudest flower,
But, much to my chagrin, I throw away the flower;
Hearing that thou sweet thief in my sight
Cannot seem so sweet to me.
  To kiss a livery flower is to pardon not,
  Being absent is to be stol'n.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And by that compare thy true report
Of true love discloses many particulars.
In mine own eyes thy deeds are more profound,
Thou dost advance, not backward,
Points in other's view,
Doubting rank things unseen, speaking their truth.
So far from false praise having been laid,
Thou flatter thyself in the record;
Yet thy deeds, as many as thy own eyes,
Creep in thy breast, and moan therein.
  For to thy countenance the eyes of the world view are seen,
  And on thy brow the deep crests are


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet all eager amity prevailed
Within earshot of a felled gazelle,
And fellow mourners sang in their breast;
Some seemed to have told the fella
That she was his, and she in their verse was haply.
When all was said and done,
"Ah, she was fled from thee,"
"Had fled from thee; now thou hast returned,"
"That's for sure that thou art true,"
And to sweet praise do homage pluck;
  And, all in one, to one pleasing story.

