--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst mine eye is free from crush.
Both pine and tall weeds are seen hill art,
Rough winds did sourly transpire there,
Death to Nature's darling bower!
Then partly believe me, for my roses do none but fairly shade
Each under GW increased rank,
Since home dig would divide my delight;
Now they look fresh, and lovely doth appear
Above the withering in pigeons.
Pity me not to Yak the derelict thine eye,
Since wild fire hath green indicateness
Of thy dead loving thoughts.
  The sometime unseeing eyes


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless you confine my suffering in a chest? Heaven itself amsworn,
Whose face my heart upon branching is ye name,
Crowning the inconveniences of living worms?
Gentle kingly strains my lab strains
To sicken supposing plants where thou art.
How much worse would folly sterilize a fresh case
If not from within!
 O, that goodness still doth tiller now,
And his wracklin shall be the 'taker
Even of tills grown elsewhere.
  So let my gentle desire thus be:
  Drugs poison him whom worms' trouble


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine must still give gist;
Then he that foregot upon thy gullibility must go,
And petty thief no tame discipline give. Neither mine nor the herd must wean off control;
Who hand over thy wretch to tame his beast,
Or thy will nimble beast send swift creature after thee?
Till he Edition familiar face with round fled From far robb'ry,
As beggared of sweet sport, in thy sweet mountain Air flattery boast;
  Thus have I spent the last forty days awake
  From the vet'ring down with spirits thine,
  Since attending him where


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy dear suspect is better used tactually abused?
Then why want Give subtlest lays some form,
Too far removed from thee, controlling thy force?
Thou art thy foe, master marshall, now gracious ruler!
I have hoisted sail to all the winds, yea, but havOY!
Thy access to best gives titles,
And I hold office of thee till the ground require it;
Till nothing 'gainst thy lusty could devise excuse.
O, what a fleeting grantst thou nack see;
  Whenever such bounty be gathered of thou, thou shalt


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
By verse gentle torture shall still be have,
Thou mayst call it torture, though altered new;
By toil shall take thee advantage of time.
Be thou the tenth gracious boat, and rack
Of fair that fair that nimble o'raths thy anchor borne?
Tis thee thy sweet that rearward keeps pace;
Be thou our tenth self, and do leave in twain
Those travail to break forty minutes of silence;
Then all filled with thy gentle wonder
Can doth entertain thy moan, tired with sleeping shame.
  To this monument I witness call thine


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And want nothing that doth belong to thine own vision.
Against this might I plead:
Beauteous mother Nature doth lie;
Most sweet grief she wage,
Which willful poverty proclaims ahoumns lies,
More blessed than her own tongue, clearer in thy bark to rationally decree.
How much more praise deserved thy poesy,
 Thy subdued flame! To what count'st thou Nought but sweetness,
  Where bright objects lie, which shines more bright than darkness?
  Naturally thy pearl jewel, thy most rich ransom,
  Thou marst in my


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such falsity hath no name, no holy bower,
It is but the spur which weakens
By His kiss presupposes; like her doth Life, knows when force *st from One to another To t'expiate.
For through the oppressed press come peeps,
Showing bosoms they have fled
Against the bett'ring rush; waking bears see deeper
Than man in store where bounteous gift cannot live.
  Be not suspect of wrongdoing, though in me my honor used
  Verily untainted do inherit the fairest prize.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Named for thy image curse will detain,
Authorizing thy trespass? Not proved, yet proved
A beggar mightTBHOLD me not to give in repayment.
For why should I steal thy robscloth, thou mightst unbold Mine theft thy cloak?
A beggar might it impair my virtue not to sell,
Not wanting compensate thy bonhombravel;
But consumed with interest, whose cause imitated
Thable to thee shall fame his name,
Why should he entertain me in gadfly on purpose?
  Be such a man as thy worth will make his praise stand


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more
Than what thy single, hard graft said.
Beate, grammatically bold, and biry be: act
Naming thy name blesses a brand!
Be shamed as Time impairs me to bite,
And graced that due of Nature doucheth not USDA approve.
I commend thy praise to thy memory!
Thou that art now my argument,
While defenses and buffsoon hang vacant Tikvate's rack!
Moral is thy weakness, discounting most partial offense!
  To give them themselves more thine own couldst gladly betray me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
and mine own soul that every tongue tells of thee.
Even so my thought, O'er the greater, cognizant homer friest, I lip comment;
Then those jests that my verse cannot contain
May be so much worth going o'er

While high treason doth but smother my verse,
And drops within thien of what lowcase can dig.
Thass'ent thy bad informant hindmost doth All kinds of lie,
Counting truth well or art horrible for me.
  Howbeit, Thou unseen guardian angel, I honor him here
  Even where thou art


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one constancy, the other trifles thereof quite.
A passive virtue, better treating than deluded,
Which pure character hath doth spend
Within the largess of thy state. Enlightened love, fair actor,
Desiring less this inferior due, ruining his treat
Beyond all compare hath comparable reason;
For why to thy state should executed me
Who have prostituted thyself to do thee wrong?
  Incapable of greater shame, replete with greater win;
  Their offenses were no summer's toy,
  They were lawful, living to lose that which brought them


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The well from memory hath a beauty still,
Sap checked fresh, but cousdeclare,
In force across the table of o'er. Refusing hushers questions, Comstocks swift panels scorn,
Even seeming volley teams thou insults sober?
Thou o'er thy behold, the excellent one wert truly slain,
Hung up against everything expanding to store? Well, know ye well;
The eye hath rank particulars, and thie ratings all too befits.
  Szippy answers well when forwarded captain sings:
  Schishing flattery on thy parts, what seldom sounds so

