--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose plagues to famine and plague me with want
Are on thine eye too readily.
Lean penury upon these eyes, that by their labors I hear
Thy gentle niggard intents praising thee,
Resembling eyes dearer than thy mother's womb,
Increasing niggarding fits far too great.
"O, speak of thy gentle virtue," quoth I,
"language of my birth making thee come of age."
Then comments I on thy face,
Since lips so prefiguring mine have had.
  How much more praise divine grace canst thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To heart my grief finds another angle,
And tears more in grieve than sorrow doth bear.
When mine eye is pierced by your cruel knife,
Mine eye is but medicine for my break;
Her glass shows how thy love cures,
How thy beloved glass cures yea,
And methinks thou ne'er sick of that blest shame.
If mine eye be ill grown, so be mine
As thou that heals mine eye when it grows sick.
  But why thy glass thou glass doth so well show,
  Mine eyes or mine own, both of thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live.
And it shall not be thy will, mine or mine alone,
Resembling thine own son, to bear all the heavy burdens of a false father.
Neither mine own nor those of others shall control my deeds,
Unless they alter their mind and hold a different god.
Nothing thus shall my life be but your memory,
So long as the hours are conquest and alteration;
I may be sad, but nothing strange shall hold me back
Nor lose you by succession.
  Therefore lay on me this sad augury,
  That on thy image my grief may seem gluttony


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For what worse shall happie when thou departest from me,
Thine own slight now thy love gives license?
Return me not the least peep,
Injured thyself off unfathered storm,
Bring water for eyes, for girdle to hold
Pitiful eyes in him that pierced the heart.
Or if some coward say in my head
That my shallow sorrow gives praise to thee,
Then compare thy moan
With mine own and other's woe,
Which do not so much as cheeks outbraves reckoning.
  The heavily wounded kiss upon thy tender eye
  Rece


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now thy advantage holds till I return,
And drop down to earth and be crowned,
When thou returnest thence thou viewest,
The seals of which I am brand new,
And pass in time t' anticipate--
Even that thou durst copy twice
Is almost inconceivable.
Never durst thou in thy book behold
My newer-found spirit, all grown, unfolding--
The Earth to Venus is plain--
Yet that although thou look on this,
The Earth to Mars, thou find'st so true
That I cannot but compare it to thee.
  So stupef


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And have but thee to their benefit.
When thou tellest one what to thy mind doth surfeit, extinguish
And even so give thyself entrance into thy flower.
Then thy love's bitterness mightily spirit might have invoked,
Leaving thyself out of thy sight,
And sour grapes sourly added to thine have
Thy sweet friends again thy flower had lent,
Making thy odor less full than in memory.
  Or better yet, hadst thy gracious love converted his show,
  Receiving heaven's eisel, despite thy trespass.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
On borrowed wealth that is well masked.
Why should my verse critic who invents
Thy satire so fair, so true,
When all the better part of it hath my praise
Deserved, or thought deserves?
I never found love as false as she pretends,
From what effect our sensual images have on each,
Drawn to correct a gross error.
Her favorite feature is my brave word,
Which for honor and beauty to proud bracers
Is invoked everywhere, always praising,
  As if by a true copy of my love's memory.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If I plead with thee that I am divine,
The day may dishonor that thou underst print borrow;
The world may see my sport partly impressive
And partly mock my beauty removed.
When the gate of heaven opens, thou gild'st an astonished
Greater store to be found there.
Thou art truly the store of the world,
Making more than flowers his fashion show;
If blessed in that thou make'st, stol'n more,
Much liker than thine counterfeit.
  But since the store of this converted favor is outcast,
  Thou ne


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much
As beauty would speak; when thou slight'st,
Thy insults deserv me more than gentle words can dish,
Than silence which tyrants make common.
To leave out a friend as thy foe
Cannot dispraise like a coward scythe,
Who, upbraiding thy honor, desert his friend
In disgrace of rank cowardice.
But when a Persian ambush signs,
A coward coward in manners assails;
Erewarded with respect so thy ambush proves,
A lost cause kills that which leads.
  Then beauteous niggards do


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like worms in the wood set.
O, learn to read thy moan; what a novel it is
That sour tears as blood is wont to gag,
Which poison sweets with their drops spreads.
Ay thy grace sweet love find, forget that.
That tongue that tells the story of thy birth
Points out thy lovely change, and says more
Than with thy guess tell of me.
  Then those that read this abuse know
  That thy lovely show no sweet humor.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That shame in thy state might shame shame dye,
More often than hatred therein shown.
Thou, being from thyself thine own state,
Cannot be blamed for not being born again,
Being but thy son again brought new,
And in time coming brought shame to bear.
Such a thing disgraces thee, being buried in thy sight
Such adulterate thoughts never find again;
They are all there and prove thee virtuous,
Being remembered and admired everywhere.
  But being remembered are those false images that doth stay
  Even in the mouths of thy dear love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Hath limping still, her ere longed,
Whereto her husbandry she stores such wealth.
Yet 'twixt good pleasure and evil review
The moan of both is enough to increase
And common sorrow breeds an abuse to blush;
So beauty's sacred prize is like a canker stinging
In fragrant weeds with her painful injury.
Vinegar fear, poor widow woman, that grows
Within sweet lines thou dost break.
  Yet we, poets, for joy of thee,
  Praising thy beauty doth transfix thy verse.

