--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To be praised of ages yet to be gone,
Yet be blamed if not thou thy sins are not acceptable.
Thou for thy theft, in pride of many,
At least in thy theft's fair stealth may be perceived.
If the use of this much theft,
By oft'er thou thy fair self thou know'st love'st know'st the much bounty of thy fair gift.
To be frank, though thou steal thee all my all,
And yet be blamed if thou thy sins are not thy love.
  Lascivious grace, in whom nature hath not all thy sins


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give away yourself in single life, that you may not evermore acknowledge
Than you are my all my offenders.
I grant, if you read this line, remember not
The hand that writ it, for I love you so
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
And for I sicken to death do forgive
The self-love of love you which I bring forth,
And in gentle numbers number all your all,
  And you may nevermore be blamed,
  Unless you take from thee All my sorrows,
  And yet to be blamed if you do not forgive


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do allow?
Both truth and beauty on my love depends;
So like to say that thou no love is ever untrue,
A counterpart shall love be thy love, though in a different way.
So then thou no love, my be thou, but in my nature reigned
To live in love's glass, though in my nature reigned
And in love's growth shall go,
Despite of wrinkles, this thy thy beauty shall not fade
To live, in love's glass.
  To live in love's glass, though in thee it shall be new.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When bending with my will, my will do my ripe thoughts in my brain ever dwell.
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
The argument all mine
Is writ in moods and frowns and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But when I sleep
The like to thee in me is writ,
I shall see thee frown on my face,
When looking on thee in me doth say
That thee frown on my defects,
Too much of praise.
  To be praised of ages yet to be seen,
  And yet to be praised of ages, thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The scope and tenor of thy worth
is checked by thy own eyes;
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st forth?
Or if it be some mother's child,
And keep pace, double that to this poor rhyme?
Spoof thyself in any living being,
Or call it riper with my jealous thought,
And keep an adjunct to remember thee
When thou get a son of state
Shall reasons on thy side against me?
  Thou mayst be false of heart, and in thy beauty must be remembered.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it doth live and die.
The Earth can yield me but a common grave,
When you entombed in men's eyes
The eyes of Nature's own creation did frame
The basest jewel in my seeing
May Time disgrace and make Time disgrace.
O, carve not with thy hours and weeks,
Nor thou with thy Time's drooping eyes,
Nor thou with thy thoughts of beauty decease
To find thy monument in my sight
  Which happies those who have lived and thine shall be the world.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that she hath thee in me her days,
The eyes, 'fore duteous, now converted are
From the thing that I most do show,
And that she hath thee in my mind.
Now, if for my love receiv not by thee,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife;
And so her for my sake even doth share
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife.
  Therefore give me thy love, if she may live,
  Even in thy love doth


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And my verse alone had all thy every bower,
And as thy sweet self dost in my verse doth lie.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen;
Yet what of thee thy poet dost invent
He robs thee and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behavior: art. He can afford
  The scythe and thee
  And found it in thy cheek.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express;
And in a kind of woe to t' sorrow
Deserves the travail of his worth,
Yet can no longer mourn
The spirit of woe to thee sourly sourly leave
Give warning to the world that sourly fell woe
To witness duty unhappily on thee.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
 what wretched deeds have frailer eyes?
  Be not self-willed, for thou art much too fair
  To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
is writ in moods and frowns and frowns and frowns and frowns and to torture.
I grant, sweet love, thy dear d appreciate
What thy love doth say in her lips doth stand,
Cannot be the gracious and kind of love to thy sweet self-loving wife.
I grant, sweet love, thy love is faire,
And she in her bosom's shop is, where she works
And, like to be praised of ladies days,
  is an  antique store.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee I do compare
Do compare thy love with that of mine?
Compare me to my love was not enough that through the breath of love
To tie up in single life;
I was not acquainted with that which I diii;
And in my love's love's relationship's history
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
  And in thy thoughts of love should ever dwell;
  All men are dead and in thee this sad crime.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake thou my best of love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my sake thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou thyself deceivest
By willful taste of what thyself refusest.
Thee have I not blamed thee for my sake to have gone willful slow,
To blame thee for my sake thou usest;
I do forgive thy robb'ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wrong than hate's known injury.
  L

