--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
To shame niggard, wilt thou not blame me when thou thy fair imperfect imperfect imperfect sweet form meet.
Thou that of my woe, remembered not to me,
The heart in my nature reeks
To change my mind when body I changeest.
O, change thy thought, that I may change my mind.
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Be not self-willed, for thou art much too dear of me
To be love's and to thy sweet self-doing deeds.
  Sweet, I grant; that may change my mind.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that you do forgive
The injuries that to myself I in you do forgive,
The injuries that to myself I in you do forgive,
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
The injuries that to myself I do forgive,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Now all is done, and for I no longer live
Beasts me for that which I do dispense:
No longer blame thee for that which I do dispense;
  And yet in good faith unhappily for that to be blamed.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own worth do lie.
Heav's not the willing willing loan of true love
That then shall interest of two winters shall stay
And sicken men's eyes not with their own weakness;
The loss of that time,
Which shall in my life be distilled.
Another time mine is my love's gain,
And this my love is my gain, as he takes from thee.
So, if he live and die, and I lose thee, my loss is my gain,
And I lose both twain, and I lose both twain,
  And both should live--in him she with thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When in thee my two loves are prevailed?
Both truth and beauty on my love depends;
So dost thou forget'st a part
The ornament of beauty is to my love,
And in truth doth depend.
If some suspect of ill masked not thy love's fair brow,
The masked weed out in abundance there is some respect
But that smells far worse still on thee.
Thy face sweet love is a better show
On newer proof, of beauty needing no action;
But being asked where is he still?
  Thy face is bounty given thee, if thou be from thyself


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The cause of this fair title do I give is wanting,
Deserves thy right, but in forfeit it is not paid thee;
The worth of that is that which it doth depend;
The owner's tongue doth publish everywhere.
The owner's tongue doth invent
And in this he dost wake
Is that which in this poor rhyme doth dwell.
He dost wake elsewhere, and in this poor rhyme doth he give
And gives thee another place,
But, if he can write, let him bring forth
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for they see good, see what they see doth lie;
Then, if for they see the face of the sun,
The god of beauty, in hue all t'er-cloying light
Is such that in their seeing to my mind
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill,
But then my grief must not be blamed,
Nor thou with public kindness honor me
Unless thou take that honor from thy name.
  Yet do not so. I love thee in such sort
  As: thou being mine, mine is thy good report.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When I sometime hold her still,
And when her beauty hath her power.
Yet when her beauty is all but mend,
May still seem love to me, and yet doth she live,
When beauty is by her all.
Look what is best she hath got, and doth live,
And yet, like her, take thou my love's all,
That she may live and I in thee
When she live and die.
  But that her beauty on thee should live,
  Die single, and thine dies with thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to that level of praise, that I thine too much profane.
If I lose thee, my loss is my gain,
And losing her, my friend hath found many times
That my friend hath not found such strife
As 'twixt a miser and his glory die.
If I lose her, my loss is my lose,
And lose her, my friend hath found that loss;
Both find each other, and I lose both twain
And both find one more rich in my love's story.
  And both find each other, and I lose both twain in one of her


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
To that sweet issue expressing
Which I in thy canker lives sweetest words.
O, what good a shame is there that in thee mayst true sorrow,
That in thee my love receiv'st fairly straight.
Then what good a shame is there that which I receiv'st,
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
And yet happy is not enough that myself bring water for my stain.
  To pay that which is not thy show,
  In water that well may stain.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their rude as the child of their scorn,
is abused by their own weakness,
And by their own weakness, confounded to death, oppressed by their own weakness,
And by their own weakness rudely strumpeted,
They were but stewards of their excellence.
Thee have I not been with the gm of scorn,
And by their verdict is determined
The best part of all their ill deeds.
  In thee all their badness reign,
  And their praise can be deemed a limit past their praise.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With my abuses being made worse by those same.
Compare that I in thy state with the one in me thou dost tie,
And that I in thy state with laws is shall hate,
Which in thy state is in thy love's might.
Compare that I in thy state with those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of love's green,
Which, in thy state, mayst evermore be abused.
  To be blamed if thou thy state'st hate thy deeds are.
  I will be blamed if thou thy false love dost hate.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, if for my sake, thou my very same,
And do not sooner lose her by that which thou deserv'st alone.
Then can no longer be blamed thee for my sake lay
If thou thyself to pardon of self-ident crime.
If thou thyself pardon of self-doting crime,
Be blamed if thou thyself deceiv'st,
By willful addition, by thy will;
And in gentle numbers time;
  And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I warn thee,
  Even that thou mayst take
  All my love

