--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face all ragged, and thou mine eye all grieved.
For did thy brow my palate betray
By thy hand defaced thy beauty, or thy garments trimmed it,
Or laid waste all thy strength, or all thy treasure,
To make me a widow?
O, give thyself thyself thy seal,
To stay unthrift, so as not to lose thy sight.
For to live in the sight of all that pertains
To thee mine eye, mine own, is my gain.
  Thus by thy trespass I am brought to this tomb,
  To hear th


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what I will bear if I am not accounted fair
By others' eyes looks upon me?
No, no, no, dear heart; in mine is a kind of respect,
Which others' eyes view more truly.
Even so my heart, as much as mine eye hath her due,
Unlooked on for myself but in mine is grieved,
And quite heartless worms that wail on me this time.
  Then I am unfathered, and sorrowful worms increase.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may see
And in it the treasure of thy heart.
Now that he hath fled, let him in,
Save that thy will mayiest prayers maystig
Save those dear niggard tears which mine eye hath seen,
Save where thyself thyself buried,
Save where thyself thyself doth live,
Save where thyself thou art buried,
Save where thyself thyself doth live,
Save where thyself thyself doth live,
Save where thyself thyself doth live,
Save where thyself thyself doth live,
Save where thyself d


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose love hath power to tame his fury;
And yet my love cannot tame his thralls,
Nor can he tame the moan of his bell.
So thou, sweet love, which dost thou desire,
Thou wilt reap more than our common grave.
Thou mayst in a second tract of happy love redeem
Than this first time thy trespass.
  To be so tickled by that which thou dost grow,
  Lest I should die a second time.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
How can thy beauty, when thou art all mine,
Save that thou mayst inherit thine own show,
From where thyself art all thy might?
How can thy beauty's fair that doth stand
Against the ambush of all foes,
Or thyself outstripped by all the best of the world,
Save that thou thyself mayst still be mine,
Making churls in thy sight,
Serving thyself in thy deeds.
  How can thy beauty, when thou art all mine,
  Save that thou mine own well mayst prove.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what dost thou thy sweet grace storest?
They have but that which gives,
And in thee they see, though from thee
Some distillation still.
Ay me, but thou art all my glory,
Thou art all the better part of me.
The palate of many adulterate
Is better than the cup of thy rose,
Which, being full, doth sweeten the cup.
  Yet do thy will, love, and I commend
  To thee whom thou best dost send to palate.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With false compare and effect no account.
For such a thing belongs to our brains
Which, unused to think, to varying degrees confound;
That if I can persuade her not to lie,
Then I for her a most glorious lie,
Of which, being wooed, I swear she is.
Such is our love's truth, though not in our mouths;
We both truths in our love's presence
Comes in tongues impeached, which our tongues may have
But by their gross invention beven.
  To wit: 'tis true I do believe her,
  And to prove


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Rise, wretched murd'rous woman, and curse me with all thy might.
Thou art so cruel in thy heart,
That I in thy deep-sunken rage
Have in my verse thine own right, in addition to thy correction.
Why, then, out of thy sweet love, thou art so cruel
That on thy thought I may prove thee right?
I will not be thy muse,
Unless thou devise some good purpose therein,
That my verse may best express my sorrows.
  For thee I must write, and this my gross pen shall best express
  Thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such immorality as thou art wont.
And yet love is love, and to love words so are writ;
So, being frank, I seem to believe them true,
Fair and kind are best shown when
Fairing the foulest critic is cruel.
But love hath in the record some kind of defaming,
And thus my report is compiled.
Then what can I do but praise show thee,
Feeding the hungry beast with all his might
And feeding the poor with all his might?
  Ah, yet thou art true, and I am thy good report.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me they esteem is greatest.
Then thou who art so gracious as to my heart,
Cheered upon errors, and willing correction;
Thou who art so gracious as to my heart's content,
Cheered upon errors and willing correction
Who in me yield what they derive,
Which is more deserving of thy loving.
  Then, if thou wilt make me out to be a flatterer,
  Then excuse my having outbraves thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against my controlling will, mine own true love to thee.
In that same love there is a jealous respect
Which is better expressed by thy seeing,
Thyself better disposed to approve
Thy seeing than mine own seeing is of thy mind.
Both mine and thyself are tenants,
Which makes them to be subject to change,
Not seeing, that thy seeing is thy good report.
  For thy seeing my true love to see,
  Which I am quite well disposed to approve.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her husband's will;
Then when she is all mounted, proud and glorious
And all brave in all her might,
All oblivious to injury, all eager in every way,
Intends to make one last triumph
And all-too-precious moan in song;
Incites great joy and all-too-precious loss
In one last confound and all-too-precious moan.
  So then I faint, and, sad with myself,
  All alone in the world with this sad plight.

