--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, seeing thy beauty in hap-purchased,
Cannot bear the thought of muchness in me.
For if thy eyes were of more worth,
Thou dost thy worth estimate,
And therefore shall be thy argument,
On my black hair, to show that beauty in me
Is not so much in question as thou suspect
The farther afield I march, the farther I from thee.
  Or, if thy mind were clearer,
  More well to speak of thy good deeds couldst thou prove.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then, when others are grieved,
I'll be straight, so as not to lose sight of thee,
For assured pardon of my crime hath no end?
Nay, if my dear love were so fond,
And in some riot be hella hap to the arrest,
Then why should I not reproach thee for my crime,
Lest I be rebuked for my deeds by others?
O, that would be scandal; yet I repent,
And much more am than I am.
  I am straight the same as thou who writ these lines;
  I will bear


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine maylive.
When in truth thou art assured, thou know'st it
To be a double trust; that trust in me
Is strangleingly held for thyself only,
And this thou know'st it must be;
For what trust hath mine eye to trust in thee,
Which thou thyself delivers to thyself,
Or some unknown beauty decease'st?
O, see, now thou know'st it to be;
Till my neglect of thee make thee woe;
  Then believe me, I am thy chief treasure.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Making war upon thy will, and doing me disgrace,
With more cunning in me than thou art.
Thou art my equal, my love being fairer in want
And pleasure more so;
So when more than thou art, what shall I say
That myself least for thy benefit canst give
Resembling thy sweet self?
Mine eye hath out given thee this right,
That mine own sweet self mayst prove
Sweet revenge for thy wrong.
  Then to be sure I am untrue of heart
  I will allege thy trespass, and prove thee
  By thy trespass proved false that


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art not deceived, though thou art certain
That my presence here on earth is sinful.
By thee I grant I am not the tomb
Which seals up the nativity of thy birth;
Therefore thou hast no argument whatsoever with me.
The tomb is where the body of my deceased love
Consumes, to the shame of which thou canst not be blamed.
Therefore be of thyself so deceived
As thou art by this consecrate pen
To witness the rack wherein Thou art found.
  For thou art so deceived
  That, even in thy own flesh, thou witness'st thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And do not disdain to thine own fair,
O, what beauty's fair dare thou throw
In thine own sweet flower, to show thyself a thing
Not seen in thine own sweet self?
Roses have thorns, of fountains mud,
And silver fountains mud;
Ay, but love knows better than tongue that thou dost speak.
Thou canst not make them sick to death,
Nor thy love canst make them happy
By controlling death and sorrows that be.
  But do not so. They are thine, and thine are


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whenas, like her, I was all a babe,
Gilding birth and full of ripe ripe desire.
But love's verdict is that I am good,
And that her account is of worth
When first my love doth first begin.
The lascivious grace of her breasts
And assailed looks that on their bell are found,
And that's all I can say.
I believe her to be true,
And she that thinks she is I believe her,
  Receiving from me what I bring back.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou lovest my speaking word, my verse shall be praised.
But yet thou hast my pen, and my verse rightly
Hath added ornament to my chest.
Thou, what a poet doth she make,
How do thy poor false essays contain words that seem
But tongues to thee now.
Her fair critic hath not figured thee
In some counterfeit of thy good report,
Which methinks to have been a true critic's pen.
  If thou lovest my poor invention,
  Then shalt be well acquainted with thy deeds.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such inconstant argument as mine
Whilst I in thy breast bear.
Be thou, and I commend thee with good looks;
Thou, whom nature hath given wisdom,
Sets sail for the farthest shore from thee,
Bound for the farthest shore from thee,
For at the farthest place thou art.
I cannot blame thee for thy looks,
Nor blame thy moan nor mine ear for mine
When on shore they meet again, or when rocks come in
And down-substantial soil thou wrack'st them.
  But blame my verse for thy sounds,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And it doth my heart add something to thine eye.
That is why thou dost slander that I call thine,
To wit, mine eye hath not given thee all thy glory.
Mine eye is so kind-hearted in thy praise,
That thou dost slander that my praise doth lie.
Thou dost slander that I will be thy beauteous mother,
Which yet dost steal thy beauty's treasure,
Hiding thy beauty's treasure in thy breast.
  If that, my love, thou art false art my love,
  That in thy breast my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That for thy love of thine own show I am gay.
O, but with mine own compare thou dost compare,
That thou mayst true love be attainted in my crime.
O, but in mine own loving be compare,
That thou mayst true love be assailed
Of my trespass by false witness.
  Or, if thou survive my judgment,
  Love hath still my treasure,
  Since my trespass hath no end.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From farther than beauty's image could peep;
Coral is cunning and quick to spur;
Borne on the mountain tops is the eye of the rider;
Even in the eye of the wolf is seen a son
Of white beauty's breath found in the eye;
And from the wolf's mouth all this beauty appears,
From whence no breath comes.
No, look whom thou diest most hospitable:
Naming thy name gives thyself admiring place,
And thou from thence to good will travel.
  But if thou return home, all is lost.

