--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet,
Till I with replete eyes respect
The sight that loves me more than you;
So my poor sightless eyes find
Admiration in the wood,
Attending your beck, my poor eyes with their own pent'ry;
And, for their part, loathsome shadows
Take all those that view the world well:
Mine eyes are but the eyes of my heart,
My beloved eyes, not of any soul in the world.
  So thou, beloved of mine eyes, do what thou may.
  As in the jade I in love


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse tormented with fear to kill?
No, it is, and I am not a willing patient;
Mine own fears are but fears of others' ill,
And I in the most wretched plight find
And from others' eyes their sickle am determined.
O, it is not enough that in my chest
Thy sickle's sickle's eye hath this sickle's view,
That in the gentle waves he on high
Sweets with his burden of blood and tears his friend's heart.
  Then no more grieve I nor his heart nor his life;
  But then


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision
Will be obstructed, since mine own spite
Will be the substance of thine own hate
To the willing loan of his largess.
Now thou be the proud-pied party
Whilst he alone is not,
One man's party, whose rank state
Is more blessed than wealth or women's eyes?
Now I must be a part of him,
Three for one; not three, nor three, nor three, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten, nor ten.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I with my envy am prevailed
By many to whom thou dost belong.
Thyself so disposed, mine own dear love so strong,
And such is my love today,
And when mine own envy hits,
It is my grief and my joy nearly missed,
That I, to whom thou dost belong,
Needs thee but that thou subsist;
To this my dear love thy sweet spite,
  That I, myself, need not trouble at all.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thee, vouchsafe me not fear,
But in my soul's love doth stay,
Thy sight doth mine own, and mine own fears stay,
For all those that know how thy art.
Thy sight, thy own fears, is in my heart
That thou, thyself vouchsafe me not,
Save what thou feel'st is my true love.
Be what thou art, then, and not thine own.
  Thy love will be thy defect, mine is thy good report.
  But thy defect is thine, and mine is thy love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see not what they perceive but what they see,
Like widowed wombs where they were born;
But when thy eyes see, thou gav'st the world,
The world knows, and the rich in it,
Thou art the first in the world to behold the beauty of thy sight
Being made of clay;
Till the eyes, which nature hath no part,
Thy sight they see, is thine,
And to the world they with thee behold.
  Lo, the world knows thy sight, and they with thee find
  The beauty of thy beauty.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or worse than widowed wombs are.
And then I scorn to hear her speak,
Whereto all frailties which frailties truth know,
And in general scorn to hear her tell,
Knowing no such lesson I then
As from the stern wolf, surfeit in his behavior;
Therefore believe me when she tells,
That I have heard her tell things which no man well knows.
  She lives, and it is not for my love to see her die.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Love, by thy tongue's bad speaking,
Whose bad speaking tongue my heart doth use,
Making me tongue-tied in other's speaking,
With other's bad speaking on thy heart's sight,
I suffer, yet no such maladies,
Like the proud-pied proud-pied bear;
Nor with his bad speaking do I cry;
Nor with his strong-willed speaking tongue I cry,
Nor with his crooked tongue I disdain to change my mind;
  But with his bad speaking, I feel him ill,
  And he, wailing me, suffers


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy lascivious spite, even so as mine
By thy sweet love's sickle call.
It is my love, O thou my love, that although I be mute,
I have the tender feeling
Of a beloved but untainted woe.
It is my love that in thee dost entertain,
And that in thee dost deceive;
It is my love that in thee dost deceive.
It is my love that in thee dost deceive,
But it is mine that in thee dost deceive.
O, this, that thou dost deceive me,
Be content


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that's therein most loved
Though the world away, where they live.
For thou mine eyes 't so far from home that I in thy sight
Have no face to play with, no tongue to mend
That my tongue's or my shapely breast
Have by far more in common use than my tongue's or my cheeks.
O, let our eyes be famished that our hearts have
When the world hath swallowed our dear love of thee.
  And then my lips, cheeks and tongue, in thee
  Have devised a wondrous beauty
  That travels far and wide in my sightless


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That sin by mine own pride shall be,
And that by thy love I may be deemed,
Thyself the better of men's eyes.
For to love others in thee I have to be,
Although thou not from mine own pride be in thy sight,
Nor be thy equal in tongue and heart.
For to be with other men in thee I have to be.
Thou as thy love, thyself so art I;
And to be with other men in thee I have to be,
  And in thee I love to be, even though thou be mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To choirs and feasts of all kinds,
Serving up the very birds with their song
With their song and their feasting
With their large tongues, they give swift fire
To his services, and he himself with his gust
Delights to burn, or else taste
The very thing that life with this is lacking.
Yet, though she be gone,
Siege with monsters and birds,
Yet doth he smother her in his smoke;
And then, in fear of his coming,
She leaves him, and he with menaces.
  For him she needs no delight,

