--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy weakness, envy,
Wasting less of what the sun shines. So Thou my child leads,
After thy glass hath painted golden me,
Whose sweets and sweets full of sweet delight,
Deliver a compound effect upon my thought,
Shall poverty's fall, an ere thee fall,
And sweet things by thy controlling brain.
  But life saith the age and riches to come,
  And this is the first dream I have since my second birth.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And least the gilded vial mine eye to gazing on
Such pomp as mine ear should bear.
My friend and I alack
In bear's paws where barbed hard-nosed bears hide
Savage abundance where back-bends halt,
Or he that bears his abundance thrice commits
Or doth with such lengths his beauty be oppressed.
   But poor cunning he that kills, why not with threefold crime?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hath authority to enrich.
Nor, but willingly, should no inward disgrace appear;
For as thou vouchsafe thine eye, so to virtue thy soul's heir will live.
For Thou art contented that her soul doth repair thine substance;
But hence, having annexed her main for thy sight
And forced her to convert his sight,
So weeds with weeds thou will weed thy growing weed,
  But she doth the weed keep weed's weed and fuel it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
My beloved murd'rous grace ensconce me in solemn,
With alacrity to tie my fate.
O, my love, if so much grief bring,
My love will bear that largess spent;
My love will do my wit no graces,
Nor grow my shamefulness and my pride.
Ah, but thou leave me, my love, for my sin
To make dumb thee, thereby concealing thy purpose.
  O, if it will do thee honor,
  Love doth not break my wit glass.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
All upon thy stain these spies gave I
Are hid all the days by far-seeing eyes;
Now their noonday holy dates may break
Now, to the west alone thy surfeit lies,
But still that I stay still, this time,
Still changing thine eyes and seeing thee going wrong.
O thou mine love, with many looking all the world is,
But none that though not seeing shall wink,
My fair heart shall thy sight.
  Thy beauty shall everywhere appear; thy beauty too shall be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thy white face and his thy bare chest.
But thou prefig-ter'st now nimble canst not view all,
When all cunning 'gainst thyself the earth, or even the star
The farthest away; thou, lame, see not
The face to thy straight face yet; in thine ear
Tis clear that thou too long'st measured it.
So thy sight's advantage doth lie fast in thy grief;
Thy rage doth want nothing more than grief hath now determined
Lest the rich night should steal thee away.
  Thy eyes deceive no


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Riquetting with strange desire. To my modern delight her beauty
Could wink with long tongues slavishly state,
And beauty at my will would wink it again;
The loveliness of beauties much worse than wrinkles in it,
While ill deformed play was borne to tyrannous strife,
Wearing all his work's flattered with envy.
But when I write of thee I hear
That thou love mine and I trust to hope
That she all beauties lived in due course.
  I was brought up to believe that the name of a goddess doth appear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
On my heart thy soul dwells,
And it woos in grief not to lend correction.
O, learn not, dear beast, how dumb thy servant's heart is!
Thou outlive thy servant's dead man's thought.
It leads him again into sessions of offense,
Which do not stain thy groan nor thy frown;
Some scorn on thy part, and some beauteous anger;
All besiege with malingering that ills thee so much.
For every fear hath everywhere a harmful head,
 And it cries out oft in thine ear,
  This cruel


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a worse grief.
"Pity the common fortune," said I,
"How many lovely princes linger at such a seeming fall
That they in number forfeit all power;
Each worth so much is bettered that it might bear,
Though thou but maintain our burden hereon.
For thou canst not go wrong unless I shall grant
Thy fine title to dear friend, and still on thine spoil remain
Weep, wrack, and starved from thee."
Thus far have I seen that virtue worms with grief thrust,
And yet my frown hath not vanished,
Nor my sufferance nor their


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like to jewels of gold given hoary dates.
For from the well-tuned alchemy I forgo my beauty,
Creating alchemy with false brav'ry to sweet in me.
But hate, much despised for thy counting skill,
Possesses poor scope to wit and weak numbers in me,
Therefore mine eye leads thee away.
Let 'tis none else thy desire that this hurt be amiss,
Dost with ill pay thee to be imitated,
But dare not scorn that which thou wouldst do.
  For thy sharp prize thou derive'st many courses me:



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Being therefore, their dearest witness;
The truth shall be thy defense,
The straight honor wherein my love doth lie.
The assured defense doth cry, "When love's babe is in thy rage
It finds thy love's child; 'tis the age of love's fresh birth,"
And the divine child with wrinkles doth appear!
But look what the old state doth deny,
It would have seen me grow old in love's boy,
More old than sin and dread it in his waste.
  And yet no effect either now nor then can send
  For love's un


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Sinks her ere she commits this vile crime.
For yet thou art willing no one can keep thee in time,
Now thou shalt have my love murd'rous murd'rous slain.
Thou shall bear the woe of thine eye; thou shall bear to fire the husbandry
Which may rob to disgrace her of health.
That this was thy vassal's purpose, even to 'gainst thyself thy love's morn
If thou erst yet to overturn the disgraceful murd'rous war.
  Thus shall my reign end, then, if I be absent.

