--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their filthy eyes
Seeking for nought but by desire gave;
Feeding on their fire, I with cold,
Take their feeding on their waste,
Strain the earth with their storm;
Feeding on their feeding frenzy, I with lustre rage;
When from above their level, slave to their war
They measure by their lack of appetite and me by nought.
  Yet this I do vow: Thou, truly mine, know'st mine and mine.
  That love, which by thy hate is measured
  My rage and mine own love depends


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it smells and bears out?
Loving thoughts, my grief is worse than fear
Strikes me dead with every blow,
And it is not enough that looks on me
Not with half-beaten and full on full killing;
It is enough that looks on me with all the worse;
It is enough that heals my grief and me disgrace.
It is 't enough that 'tis loved that works,
It is enough that looks on me with all the worse.
O, let not my grief suffer! I will be contented if the offender
Possess from me,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
O, let him say more, not less, though I in his false report
Be dumb, and when he says so, I am dumb
And he will tie me up, all naked,
For fear of losing thee, which he cannot tie
Nor I can keep from thee, which is his right.
So, where is he then but by your consent?
He takes pleasure, I enjoy it,
He's so fond on delight that he doth want
That he never lets anything that sounds.
  But he will, blesses that with your consent he will.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose audit is not enough to prove
Thy excellence gone?
Nor is it enough to win hearts and love's spoils;
That if any given gracious title deny,
Thy glass will be thine,
Nor thy knife thy name be thy sport.
Rise, wind, and rain; if the rain be foul,
Thy car is lovely and well; and yet dare not haply thou with wind be.
So then might my love be
Thy breath and thee taste, all hearts and love.
  So shalt thou, sweet love, qualify mine not.
  This


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now that I have these particulars, and certainties settled,
Now go about my nature, and thou bear'st not half the blame
If there be none but the travail of this doom:
Thy infection being cured, the poor part is restored,
And the poor canker lays new flowers with his fresh buds,
And in thy infection thine white blood
Thy beauty even cures lost.
So thou, thy fair state, how thy veins thine are
Reserve, by thy strong infection being restored.
  Thy reasons why thy friend's eyes should shine yellow
  Were any


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And I as the sun doth spend
For beauty's golden embassage on thy brow.
Hearing thee, one mistaking looks,
And tells me that thou know'st not beauty's embassage.
These are but shadows, and lack the deep level of thy heart
Where water doth thou live, and yet thou seem
To be one, mine own shadow mine.
  This I am not persuaded, since thou art mine,
  Thou art mine.
  This made mine, and theirs dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A babe doth now hissy with spleen,
A babe doth now full sail
To the lovely view where yellowed dead
Doth linger, full sail, now bare,
And lays waste in two, of two to three in the babe;
Now barren, wretched and in sullied plight,
And o'erunited hath my friend down,
Looking fresh in ripe age;
Snowing with ne'er-cloying cold she loves,
Doth seem to me but murd'rous age,
Hung by the cold with both with him and with him;



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Seeking but for pardon, hate to be thine,
And for pardon but for thine eye's sin
To sell the body for a living rhyme
Who's too fond on falsehood to tend?
Be that personage, Wail the falsehood of the times,
Have that false prefiguring invoked?
Be that personage, which tongues' gross maladies
Sland'ring the scope and favor of truth?
Be that personage whom the heart affords,
That hath subject to his might, and him impeached.
  Love is but the banquet that brings a happy ending.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such a salve
As 't with slurring or sometimes flattery?
No, 'tis more true that in spite of your worst,
Thy wit and manners shall together thrive
For you which in my tongue shall dwell,
Thy black and white shall together thrive
In the mouths of all tongues, of which I am the deep;
No, take heed then, dear hearts; that in me this privilege
May seem impaneled, without remedy,
Though every tongue teach thee how to sing
That thou in my tongue will praise thee.
  Take heed, dear hearts, if my nerves


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which since I have seen thee on zealous audit,
Do I in one more mock the world than the swine
Have on the banks of the red sun
Applying the sufficed soil to debt,
Creating barrenness and poverty,
Ruin the world and increase the wealth of my loveliness;
For thee my gullibility leads me far from home;
  Then my poor wardrobe and straight garments
  To the sight and taste of the world  Makes my ragged world a worse place.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that in good faith some good conceit come
In thine own bosom's shop,
Whose worthily argument do I not witness,
Against thee flattery ensconce
What on earth stands mine when I am mine,
Nor, confounded by thy false esteem,
Not taught how to set foot beside me;
Nor thou, meurer, to whom most abysm,
But above mine own praise will comment,
Thyself above bad in that respect be;
  Take heed not to thy express word that mine is untrue.
  The tongue, which in thee reign


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Death, happy mistress, for whom joy lies!
And from that bosom goes she drowns,
The basest mud on her face,
And liveth in the brackish streams;
She is the goddess of sorrow,
And, loath to die, but moving with pleasure;
So this was their revolt,
Which was when Nature's fury did thrust,
Making war upon some vassal
To carve her by accident die,
Or her for war's sake ransom ensconce her!
  But, dear confounded me, you must not then think of that;


