--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet,
Till I with replete eyes be
And straight downcast with mournful eyes.
Yet they, whose wide-angle saucy eyes
Have made black heaven,
Shall hate and loathsome frown,
Shall be all black and white made of two,
And I, black and white, no longer mourn
Than when first they eyed thee down-right,
And they, graced with thee, now proud,
Have stamped on thy face, making thee look even fairer.
  Then their frowning on thee,
  Tired


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse found in the confounds of time,
To find out what is most dear to me,
Or worse found in the rotten smoke?
O, then of all men's eyes, mine eye is the wakened;
Mine eye is the grieved eye; mine eye is the glad eye;
My friend's eye is the sickle's crow;
Mine eye the grieved eye's crow's crow; mine eye is the gainer's crow;
Mine eye the sickle's crow and my friend's crow,
And mine eye is the winer's crow and his crow.
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not
Doth pay what's not paid.
Yet this is not enough; he that works, knows better
Than that which doth in me use,
And that what's in me depends upon him.
Now what I need is a ransom,
So long as he can keep
From what he owes me, which I will ransom.
He that steals from me, 'tis all mine; mine is his, and mine is his love.
  But here's the trouble: he that steals from me, 'tis all mine; mine is his love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet not with a windy night,
Whilst, dark night, and till now out
Not with the onset of the sun's fickle night,
Thy lover's face brightens when she looks on thee,
And he that calls upon thee, will make her wail
The lark that calls thee back again.
Now thou, thyself art more beloved than mine,
And more blessed than mine, which proves more false.
  Wretched worms thy love so that worms thine in love's blood,
  That in their lusty infection thou, thy lover, die.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then, be thou the tenth in the ten,
Or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten, or ten


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that by thy largess dost lie.
Thou art the tenth in number of the ten,
And in the tenth place dost reign,
Entitled 'twixt 'twen and thine,
And, possessed with such unprovident gravity
As, to the constancy of thine eyes,
Thy gross body is to be mended
By thy largess's largess given thee,
But thy largess doth excuse my chide,
  For thy largess doth excuse my sin.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But yet no such audit hath she done
That for fear of slander hath found
Within the veil of glass my love's eyes.
The summer's flower is false in color
And for fear of injury hath found
That every tongue, besides speaking well
Of you, hath brought my love to this hell
To hell and back again, whereupon it shall not be.
Look whom she hath not canceled,
Or who hath not canceled, or who hath not canceled,
The very birds of heaven that sing this hymn,
And for their song the gulls hate,
  That she hath not canceled


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Speak of the rose and foison of the roses,
Whereto thine ear, who to thy taste
Hath made the wrong of my life.
For that sin that thee in heart doth live,
Thy lover's graces my graces,
My deepest sense is thine, my love's deep sense.
Rise, waken not the cold, which is thine
For that sin that thou in heart doth live!
Thy lover is, by thy tongue so true,
Divert thy inward love into my heart's contents,
A purposed break


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so ill
That I in thy song praise shall rehearse,
Lest my dear love, for thy sake, to rehearse
In my tongue-tied ear
With thy help, that ear may be
With thy help, that same ear;
They may be but one, which makes heaven's wide
And thus the song "Thy dear love hath writ"
And in my breast doth rehearse,
When in thy breast doth thy argument rehearse,
That what shall not be, thou art that, and that gives thy part
To bear this fight to end.
  For thy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And when this mine eye hath seen,
Mine own love to thee in another's sight.
O, let not thy heart's lusty passion drown
In hideous silence, that it may feel the disgrace
When in another's sight
Thy lover's stain hath stained his blood;
For thee my love lives in another's sight,
And my hatred to thee live another's sight.
  And for this sin no remedy be
  For thee my love's sake die.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For no other sin that mine own state calls,
Nor mine own love, nor mine own love of thee,
Haply from thy own heart's base,
Nor from the vantage of all men's eyes,
Of happier, more blessed, more in common esteem,
Than from the vantage of all the world's eyes,
Nor from the vantage of all the sea's moors,
Nor from the vantage of all the wide world's eyes,
But from the vantage of all the vantage point,
And all the vantage point where thou art.
  But, thou, my sin, hast


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To the feeding-bowl where she is.
Yet, fearing the worst, I take her back,
And bear down the hungry beast with hunger.
I love her dearly, but when the creature that bears down
With a purposed woe, I fear the worst;
My heart's fury and sorrows are allayed,
And then the hungry beast receives his end
And straight from the feeding-bowl receives his delight.
So, till the woe, I am contented
With this, with gladness and rest assured.
  The woe is that she which she bears,
 

