--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, seeing thee to be despised.
But thou, being black,
Beauteous, and barren of thy love,
And, like a mute widow, I weep with sorrow;
For, like a mute widow, I will not live
For ever, and never again,
Nor ever again, nor ever again,
Nor ever, nor ever again,
Nor ever again, nor ever again,
Nor ever again, nor ever again,
  But thou, being black, beauteous, and barren of thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If my heart be so cruel as to break
As to say, "O, my friend, my friend is dead."
O, my friend, my friend is dead,
For love and thy love are one, and thy love is another.
O, my friend, my friend is dead,
For love and thy love are one, and thy love is another.
O, my friend, my friend is dead,
For love and thy love are one, and thy love another.
  O, my friend, my friend is dead,
  For love and thy love are one, and thy love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
Now I am not so sure,
But all this is well with thee,
For thou, my love, is my sovereign,
And this I will not take away,
Nor even forfeit my life to thy will.
Now, if thou be my sovereign,
Thy gift is not so much to me as it is to thee.
Mine is thy love, and thou art my sovereign.
  Thy love is not so much to me as it is to thee.
  Thou, my love, hath no control over mine.
  Thou, my love, hath no control over mine


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For that which thou lov'st is not enough,
That thou shouldst be so cruel to me.
Thou art so kind as to me that thou shouldst give me back,
And I will give thee back again,
If thou shouldst so much as bewail me that I will be thy foe.
I will be thy advocate,
And do what thou wilt, to thy part.
  If thou shouldst do me wrong, I will be thy advocate,
  And do what thou wilt, to my part.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the sweetest jewel in the kingdom,
And, blessed with such a jewel,
The most precious jewel in the world.
The world knows thy beauty, thy worth, thy beauty's height,
And thy beauty's wealth so far as thou art.
The world knows thy beauty's beauty's wealth, thy wealth's height,
And thou art the most precious jewel in this store.
  Thou art so blessed that, despite thy best,
  My love doth steal thy treasure,
  And, like a thief, thou steal thy treasure's treasure's life.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet thou dost deceive,
That thou art the fairest and most perfect dress.
O, be not deceived, that thou art the fairest of all
When in thy sight thou dost see the fairest of all.
Look what thou wilt find when thou viewest
Thy beauty dost lie hidden in thy sight.
Look what thou wilt find when thou wilt find
The very truth of thy truth; thou art the fairest of all.
  But thou wilt not find it, for thou art the fairest of all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or that I am a deformed child,
And that she hath in her a part
Which her true love enjoys,
Even though she be false, and yet she hath
A part of my true love, even though she be false,
Which I love to the utmost, and yet she hath
A part of my true love, even though she be false.
  She hath a part of me that loves thee,
  And I am her love, and she hath a part.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art my love, my love is my heart,
And that thy tongue doth reproach me
For what I do for thee.
Thou art my pen's vassal, my love's vassal;
Thou art my mother's slave, my mother's mistress,
And, like a bastard, murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous,
Who, by their sins, do their utmost injury.
For, like a murd'rous murd'rous, they do their utmost injury
  To those that in their murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My discontent with my contentment.
For if thou wilt, I will not deny
That I am contented with thy largess.
For if thou wilt, I will not deny
That thou art rich, and I am contented
With thy largess's largess's sum.
  But if thou wilt, I will not deny
  That I am contented with thy largess's sum.
  Thou hast my sweet love and my proudest hopes,
  Which, for thy sake, shall be remembered
  In thine eyes.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou, my love, my love's blood.
Thou art my love, my heart that loves what it loves,
And thou, my love's blood, is my blood's stain.
For thou art my love's eye, my heart that loves what it loves,
And thou, my love's blood, is my stain.
  Thou art my love's eye, my heart that loves what it loves,
  And thou, my love's blood, is my stain.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, like a beggar, gives thee the fortune of fortune.
For thou, like a beggar, canst not be so rich
As, like a miser, with all his means;
For thou, like a miser, is so poor
That, like a miser, with all his means,
Sinks all his wealth and all his spoils.
O, but that thy poor compare,
Thyself so poor that thou art so rich.
  For thou, like a miser, with all his means,
  Receiving all his wealth, all his spoils, all his fame


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She lays waste, and lays waste the herd,
With her herd's waste, and all her pride
Shifts everywhere with her swift swiftness.
The herd doth every wantonness,
And all her delight, all her joy,
Grows like a weed with weeds everywhere.
The herd doth every wantonness,
And all her joy, all her joy,
Grows like a weed with weeds everywhere.
  She that doth rob the herd,
  And all her delight, all her joy,
  Grows like a weed with weeds everywhere.

