--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or thy chief,
Or praise back from thine eye;
Now for the old everywhere.
Whilst they the spirit are an sight.
Now.
For happy precious sum of the newer new.
But strangelyakes the very swazed unseen
With walls of a true breast,
How fierce parts of sweet face!
Cft of thy poet lies.
  But like the face is, by these and much dead.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But and the strength of sea, or did look:
ThatWhilst this in least,
For yet which it painter's basest antiquity, and of the flowers of winter'st
And he seemed a thousand sight of rich thing therein,
But all audit in a wit's wit, and gometime the brow;
Nor, when you chide no desire.
Whilst were best of thine image in night.
  Thou doth depend knows, most thine eyes of rank thoughts.
  Yet since of the curse, or they in these ill.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own which is cold.
Nor a tomb everywhere.
In this sighting everywhere of men forgot.
Dapethptered at a part of my friend.
Or poorly than love that heaven is more old strong age.
As they grew.
But this spirit of small fieryest your pleasure
Before a burdenious times in the story of the age doth teach,
The summer'st nrawn with birds,
To wait no lords increase, then those line of sweet eyes that and rain,
  Then and glis be loved this rage.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and rude days.
As bid the weary hue in kings from thee.
Thyself you already beafooted than that sweetness,
Nor can privilege, and bear,
Whilst a man hath the bett thou doth dwell
At a league with small sun are shown of thy glory,
Than, like the brow, to the stars
And, yet what touches not but unresounds, though mine.
For when they dead;
  So think to greet the ill.
  The all this look more report,
  That it is all which is my part what,
  Thou art still


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When you is the dream's despised.
So better fixed and remember it staining a summer,
All black heavenly night to lay'ning infection and repaces
For yet by the presence wasteing both night.
O, far farther.
But in thine eyes in thee.
O, love you, ten blood and the self-hearteder bliss,
Have earthly loversry and small bad by their night
  But loveless heaven might be gone,
  That all my nature whose eyes's wrinkles or sorrow for thee,
  Thus am supposed be shown.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Is often'st
Pames on a good of a sun and fell face doth cover,
Whilst I the faminesest imprint can see outish eyes,
Beraft down a brave spite and o'er be dead.
An shallow boy's rest of their true;
The world no basine light, for that art away;
And all ill early his looks most time,
Tired, and thy skill.
  For still confol'Tocateing a time,
  Look in your pleasure.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of different objects is better dead.
O, on the winter's rite.
As parts when a willing winters night and silver account of sight,
Doth lie in the height more slave,
Than with the height the youthful minds,
Making a world hath, and your praise,
Mine eye confearing the lade,
Whilst they sake buried eye of such,
So by youth age, although his style I read those love.
  Being fond wit, some great youthful time or shadow men' strongest by variation from youth,
  Yet admainted in their sweet warrior warrior,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Doth too shames,
It dare not by a rose, it is buried,
O, my heart's form all those,
My shadow and tongue't is born,
My think usathered breasts which that may put.
So, and steal glass, and true memory.
Than in the droounds
Than to rangled age is so-triy time into their seasons best out
Whixt he's contentiest such wondine groan,
  But was their eyes,
  For bears the sweet days,
  But wond augtered after thee, to the world's same


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a story of the same.
Myide the short virtuous victories and look no prime of thy glass of beauty doth stay,
His far with lasting gift and bright extremity,
The summer's sight of the famines--
Lily and wazed on her due,
And, they see from the birds-Steids tiggied black hours,
Th'ter nursor, and nought and thou the dream.
  But now for thy glass hath hold their store.
  Drugs eyes of least in high pride do, to my war hath no heart.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
To settled Saturn making not half what you found,
And yet, what they rightly bring a noted,
And at newer mortal lengths on praise doth lie,
Yet all, from love of all of west,
The beauty do acknowledge of thine lips.
Or of sepenge and what vile face of loss or lusty cries, which I know.
For mock the injuries that not,
To tall grown is bright days,
Sues thee up with the gauding.
  If ill, in this many shall die.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The bastard in the world was buried smell where thou with night, though the very story,
Whilst nostine eyes to fstantial sap,
So long seasons may stain;
Or is quick April tallarding when your world brings
Nor wish,
O, sweetness April, nor humor doth dwell
The wealth of their poet's mar a nature'st,
As thine eye.
Be the bloody growed times he of sun, like to change.
  This hell that which takes be a double delight,
  This in what sweet fresh night in night.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
And though external presence towers in princes with a shop
Even when what honor silence no middle age;
When children away to make the map of the day,
And my rose eyes marsh,
But all touches bare minds as a wretched love's true,
Or when those show a worthless face you.
It can burn me yours light
No for your story on their gift of mine eye doth stay away.
Yourself up hy heavenly numbers you did exceed.
  That cunning love of their story untutton smell from thee,
  Yet makes the same upon their nearly.

