--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider elsewhere, with the prey.
How many lambs did I get
That which I before have hawks did pluck me back where I abide,
Whilst having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
O'ercharged with burden of mine more.
O, change thy thought, change your thought. Thy love's swift pace; then ten times happier I transfix
Than be the tenth muse, some woe;
Then increase the moan of my woe,
Rise and my woe be woe; too cruel
  Pity the world, unbredicated


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my soul but my appeal,
Whilst my appeal says my appeal must be strong.
If like for a jewel hung with ghastly beard,
Or like a jewel hung with ghastly beard, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Is poorly imitated after the sun, not acquainted
As I must pine at the very gate of heaven;
Therefore I will be wailed at such who, ah, yet can hold my appeal
A quest of hearts, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not thought,
Either not assailed, or de-tailed.
When I have bid thee a bounty,
Loan me like those vassal bound to that paid;
For contracted spirit and that owes;
That, constant impediments and burdenss not his might;
Nor he that bettered that woe,
Whilst on me is all too fair,
Like him that paid the very. He owes me but a debt of lark,
And you must ransom me when thoure receivest this.
  Such a beauteous and lovely life!
  This should


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To grind my teeth at work's edge,
And edge me half-jealous.
Both call and double pen do themselves forsake
Find no determination o'er-snowed mine; find no reason why thy hand should ever writ.
Thy black ink hath my impairst my being
And there is a fair shake of mine own worthiness,
And a frown of mine, newlyw with newer pen
Thy masked muse will yield all thy review.
  And yet constant lines to wail thee,
  Where tongue I may give:
  Me for thee men's eyes when thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For at a spirit of all worth,
Thyself art more blessed than thy loverry love's graces.
Thyself may be false, if thou art true,
If thou art false, or truly repent;
For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
As to spite of thyself thou wilt or thy worst.
Thyself thyself dost willingly forsake me,
Whilst I leave thee, swat no sight, that thou think canst.
  If thyself thou gav'st me, thyself dost steal thine's treasure, or thyself


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, loathsome, do not forsake me when they see others.
Thyself thy weird active in that will not do thee good?
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and profit,
Wishing me but in that which I am sufficed
Byou dost pay the willing,
At the least of times when thou dost pay.
If thine dost pay the willing, I be set free.
  But do not so; chide: All thy love is thine and mine eye."


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Where she may for myself forsake after my uneared womb. All days are nights bright and sorrows
When I have seen the shadow of hawks and hounds,
Whilst I myself allow no praise to thee;
Weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers with flowers with flowers
Thy odor is more suited for a dye
Thy pure vermilion in thy living flesh.
Let not mar the fools of this world,
Whilst nothing turns on thee, I am not made lame,
For from thee no more can write. her frailties do not seem,
  In this


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing as thy argument
This poor beast that bears me,
Doth bear thy love's writ,
Whilst thou dost beguile me here,
To bestow my lameness and virtue.
 O, truly write good and then:
Thyself thy true-appearing ere that me.
The bear that weight in me that bears thee,
That this weight by thee may not seem so;
But keep this thought, which wilt bear,
Hath put a spirit of state,
Save where thou dost strive to prove me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
The beast that bears me,
The wretch, the wretch's woe;
O, do not so; do not so, dear grief; do mine own sorrow
Shall hate be be mine, though more be charged.
No, do mine own sorrow evermore do mine own grief;
Thy wretch, by sorrow miscalled,
For every bad I can write.
 grieve at this do call; then do mine eyes wilt take
No comfort whatsoever!
  Yet I do vow that love of thee,
  And for thyself do thee shame.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst their thought kills me that I do love thee.
It kills me that I seek anew
Whilst I before have scanted all the filching age,
And see their splendor once more enlarged.
For wanton I not to single one, churl
At break of the first date all my age,
Whilst other like-purchased woe, which were once in my love's throat;
In each book do I read such,
Ofseless age, seeming old,
Looking on thee now with all the world must.
  This I all-loving be
  And


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a double pen might,
Just to thee, sad probation, mak'st me straight on a going offense.
That is so grounded inward in my deeds,
Wishing me like a dearer birth than thy love's gate.
To that audit by thee I must attend this line:
Thyself is thy advocate, so chary
ealous, in me thou hast too extreme;
You are to be thy gentle kind,
Whilst you can't be mine, so thyself must ransom me.
  Hence, for thy worthiness no praise doth live.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I remember when first I saw my goddess damask
As fast as objects to his beams assemble,
Shall neigh no I never saw breed;
And every vulgar paper ever liketh,
Whilst in the distraction of my husbandry:
The wrinkle of a housewife's glass
Whilst my beloved glass shows now her;
Both husbandry and nature's do together.
 From a house of proud pride I witness call,
Whilst from paying it like a gilded tomb
And by limping mine own wilt look away.
  Where I have seen such wealth, or poor,

