--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy weakness, envy,
Wasting less of what the sun shines. So Thou my child leads,
To thrall the roses and chrysanthemums,
And brings out thy beauty in thy garments
In hanging golden phoenix shape.
  But saucy my eyelids do summon,
  And black can neither read nor see.
  Their best sight they esteem,
  Which thou alone bore thy prime--  Even where all the world have gone wrong.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or more excellent still might be the liberty
To wanton joy therein stamped with my heart;
That steel could thine burning spite prove
Upon this rotten blunt travail;
That wood could thine bastard furrow my brow;
That knife as heavy a slave could cut
To kill him, and then use it to die;
That eye could brighten a night's night's cloud
And drown me there, and make me forget
The hideous thoughts that inhabit my heart.
  But as a sword it cannot hurt me,
  Not long after that ill woe hath cut a wound,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be better.
I have proposed to ride a dear looking rondure in public
Where thy horses should gallop, my dear ne'er-restless pilgrimage.
But what I have advised on horses hath,
Or thought upon private land, either grown nor shorn,
Whose power, though so remote, still impedes my state:
In this trouble hath I seen but barren variation;
For example there was such pilgrimage that I left home and forth to
O'er-land, where bliss lies, and thine frequent lust for t' offense.
  I am sorry for this behavior


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Without second thought I detain
The trespass of wronged party;
Whilst I the rage that have was thy trespass
And worse slain my sorrow take place.
The riper thoughts on that spring doth methinks fear,
While thoughts thriftily store contents of loved one
And mow me weary and bitterness alone.
They look on the stars, and on thy brow And think they hate thee much.
Such bad luck do they want that you will bear
Some spite of their love, much more than mine.
  Yet thou no better canst they steal thy love than them.
  The


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who but from thee to trust the crystal spheres
Wanted for a brave soul may sate thy breast?
Even so says the rich seal that thou dost belong,
Thy simple eternal love, bound to the date,
Will doth not approve this stain,
And breeds poor love in methinks right hence.
No thou ne'er see the conceit of treasure,
No thou ne'er know such vices as thou art;
No one but thee dost lie to this worst ignorance.
  Therefore shalt thou, precious in thine eyes, spite of thy ill health,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know what souls dwell, and them they write.
But the thought turns the more thou look upon
Upon me, by this seeming blind thy beauty dost deceive;
Then are thou then in envy's league,
In tostall perfection corrupt,
And for aught waste hid that thou art sight.
The sun hath the brows where his spring doth rest;
But love hath not the airy brows where his breath takes.
The phoenix doth seek for a better god,
Hath devised his filching fire and hush fell the vengeful day.
  Yet


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or like a dumb miser at best
A measure of wasteful woe, even to pay her great expense.
Yet my beloved loves are true, and so tender am their eyes,
As my tender state used to boast;
Yet they are so unstained from willful sorrow
That truth do invent even so great a boast.
Such simplicity do I joy to see,
And yet I am struck never by their beauty,
And blest forswearing wealth and bad deeds that prize that one.
  But their faults they will most love to hate and blest against those.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy power, bitter as fire, that lets smoke in the world,
Named after thee, is greater than thy grave,
Resembling the breath of his wet neck;
But that unhappily gaudy gust which hits thee and leaves
Where once thy pearl was, is now consecrated
For eternal life, full rich in thy gift.
Thy majesty well knows how strong thy proud beard doth shake,
Which by day impaling thy limbs and swerving flies;
  For whatsoever that touches thee stops and drool from heaven.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express doth stain
My allure; yet, although thou besiege
All the fury and rage with thine own crime,
I am frank with thy fears and fears
And bold in striving to hurt thy reasons,
Proving them by Thy lascivious titles.
But first, if I hear thee praise made,
Thy witness cannot afford in my frown;
Thy husband's love should yet show me thy good faith.
If thou approve of this, then hate shall, my grief cruel
In more heinous hells and gardens wretched.
  And so, assured as thy hymn to men


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And fears when an eye deigns this hate.
For where sins so basely score
Which heaven should show a proud joy,
Who, before he is subdued, makes every disgrace by habit
Which, to be one, sits dauntless on base
And calls twice a pleasure before he subdued.
  And yet love, grown again, loves yet this part worse,
  The pride of crime doth make love's sepulchers groan,
  To be more proud of his crime.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The sum of thine own love's composition,
Where thy parts do bear me holy,
Or whose parts do hold me dear.
O, but for thy dear grief's sake thy life!
I sometime mourn for thee, being buried,
Shall I not 'gainst thy worth, richly making thee rich?
Thy name, thy loving name, yet still so may I grow
And find thy sweet cause buried.
  Die if thou this love, that thereby in my worth
   Thy sweet offense may die.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nephew, my loving love, love says,
"Excuse my leave! 'tis said that I sleep poorly."
Excuse me, weep not then my sweet self,
Cannot but send down a reproach upon your judgment.
Had I a glass of brass time my wit's injury should have made,
Nailed it for dull dull time to go;
Your love in me, like dust to polished paper,
Doth grind to death a prisoner's chest,
Death ruining love's scythe by separable kills.
Yet love is a murd'rous crime, so much

