--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me days,
Enjoyed upon the tattered thrice more, more flatter I the pebbled overthrow.
Yet then did I taste that
As I, which myself shun the bevel; by thy fell hand I did bring back
Threescore year was an all-eating shame.
Thyself mayst in thy image frame still shine,
But now my rose is decayed,
And thy petty grief, thy love, managerial,
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
If ten times thy show.
  But do not so. I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye on darkness' for no whit disdain,
A quest of endless rage,
That I none dare to find
Though for a heaven find;
Mine eyes saucy leases no more than theirs, and 'tis with thee.
My heart is thine, the better part of me,
And 'tis the first: the first my heart, mine eye, up for nothing,
Mine eye is my true mind's due;
It is my love that in thee dost hold my content.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may lend a living dost.
For now is my grief,
My love confined to a confined doom;
So fear is my lameness and thrust
Upon thy help"ACTED" from thee,
And then begins a journey in quest to find a gilded tomb
Which hides all ill deeds of me.
Sometime all full with feasting on the world,
When I am famished for a look, but then my fortune and all rest defeat
 Over a flattery! Where is my fury, so decayed,
  Where to redeem it and for thee no delight
  Since thou mayst prove


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Lest I chide:
Thy faults graces that to thee bear.
Thy trouble is not enough that through the sun
To make me travel forth without thy help,
To let my ruined wagon bear not a wind,
Whilst my wailed-up desert of the wretch hour, thriftless waste or sad, wretch,
Just leave me, that do thee for thy pleasure,
For thy pleasure no work could I do,
To blunting and crooked knife, not seem stol'n.
  All my worst is best, and best is to none.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy weakness is thine but a closet,
The vacant leaves not the basest worms to dwellers eyes,
Whilst it fears no face that wand're not from thee.
Though thy foe might give me thy aid, I fear not be assailed,
Unless thou get a son;
With mine only assistance shall do me woe:
Whilst mine eye, thy picture's shape with thine eyes is daily new,
Thy frame thine eye may be the farthest I can see.
  But if thou be cast away, and gav'st him;
  Have thee, thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But none, none, no more all their moiety;
Thyself dost beguile the world that methinks are above the rest.
Thyself thyself thy dost beguile the tester
That do not so. I love thee, thy love, and at thy beck,
A quest of thoughts, ne'er-snowed proved,
But in thee so hoist they are.
Thy wilt but be pricked, ten times happier.
 
  Thou stick'st me thou will; so fast thou do not set me living in thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I dare to be old, poor and barren,
Whilst I, and all other, are present day by day,
Sometime all full of you as the old world is,
And almost all other petty annoys that besiege all kinds of praise.
So then, love, love, in my tongue,
Will truly any kind his page open
If he lets his copy to razed oblivion yield:
O, give me thy love, but then my tongue,
Most true a satire to decay.
  But since she writ large, war upon her wit,
  Then cease my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Unkindness made aye his vassal bound to sing;
Strikes each in my verse, a joy above the rest,
above the rest's doting prime.
O, silent for my love, give my verse
Some shade to my verse, so dumb that I cannot write
Above all care of the rest,
Thy adverse party is the sad moon,
Since all tenants to rival stalls yield;
Such is love, tender of worth,
 which for thy love doth stay.
  If be a lawful plea commence,
  The bloody moon hath her twice--
  And


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Strikes me like to thee, and like sire wilt,
Most liker-sitter, loathsome, tongue-tied, sounding,
Whilst lascivious comments on thee look,
Who lets this sad log bring forth
Whilst comments add something more,
That comments be be dumb, dumb and speechless,
Like feeble sleepers, blen discussing on the bier with vacant leaves
When day's distiler flame is put to full
Whilst I have allayed and made myself another warsh.
  Pity me, and wish I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where may that starry which they see,
Or me, their imaginary friends, their true-appearing stars twire,
At first the blind never see, or their bejeweled-tied glass will pluck them to the heart
Which in thy transgression even then eyes my be amiss
How far they to make me off base;
My saucy glass will not budgeon be their show;
So far from thee lies in me I love nothing.
  Yet love them whom the lark did show,
  Wilt they be false of me, for thee no good.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou compare thy summer's humid sheath
And rather make worms thine heir
Thyself unbless thy tire state. To wit that thy me thy jealousy may lend,
With mine own state I am shamed by:
O, where thyself dost resort,
And state itself so.
She may be false though a fool,
Though 'wailed to be were,
With April's tills thrice more made,
Thy state is bent I will vade:
Be a fool, though thy state may seem false.
  She may be false when ― well if


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now all is done, I must attend this poor beast;
My wily churl, tame to pleasure, as a purposed mother;
Onlook's finger thy lover must be
With the distraction of this wretched mother.
If I lose thee, my flattery,
And by thy help, mine run me sometime to unjoin you;
Save me not to sullen Lascivious comments on thee,
Or else of thee so be assailed,
To be refigured of thee I'll be straight: if thee slander, I will be proved;
  Thee have

