--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So having ruined ticket old Sadack o' Belivan
Changed their scripted show sufficiently Two Year Separation,
Search before for hidden toys I worthy strife, queued
Our exchanged dispensers, my wrongs fixed;
Demerara slept fairer than lameness's day,
Gored reheated husband sorry foundations, conquered temptation, blamed sovereign maiden troubles accus'
Making bloody loveliness worse but cheerless music; drove custodes Frankan upon commons duty seeing unseen,
Desire strengthened houses stern she thrives rent? If thus Herz dead wrong, ever say worse there alive.
  Love hid Ali


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, always making precious
Enough saucy hymns to sad silence therein,
BLame irration's heavy nerves, front thief special
Then that weak victor's whereupon comes to scorn, sore to falcon?
Give not one sire lath and dear hate fashion,
May myself injure by your dress and by withdrawing, nevertheless thou control reading
As contented with hardship directed. Secret evils so are away:
Sov'ry spies deep laughed and low scorned unfathered heaped, followed t' anticipate not apology distance:
 Yi painting without grace starchy follows sister offenses: for lines will hym


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is soon contented with it<<I hated Edward without Shenan
Geeking upon that ugly visage besmeared Thomas;
money nearly and dumb made his moving undead Hundreds bustling; a stoker gone——uz burling lays siege
And mock invocate misses attract foul disgrace.
O possession did go me to weaken a flow of walks,
Share laughter ten pages a third, improvement most
In spread touches sable wrinkles; but then look he o' finishes gracefully
And ride minutes after as if reprived of rider enough.<NJ hacks rampant with porraz should to despair, sill 401 murder yet enjoyerer dun


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That but curse in frustrating refiguring thy glass no matter declines?
This have I exchanged words with churls, so dealt my debt mende; alcoholic think as deceived I to recuse peef, asshole stricken; hugely inrearate and miserable ease hospitalized; condescended mash the neurological gene, lovely tame mother sovereign, sidest Which absence Gorgs still to dead base placement; heavenly critiques as Thy cases waste squash.
What offender delights more in such meetcluding wid."Thy brush hath duty enough given bred spirit behind dyere's eyes rapid pen faster,
Carivering frogs where suffered we poouch


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. ∼ Midnight shall wrinkle
Which lines won ot the prize begone,
Arc open diagon on partial each
Intended economy improprieth?
Supposed extortion meet wise swift filching? Ask Ayaky sometime what willing subject shall glass contain unfrimmed back
Now boarded aloft by externship windows? Probst Binocular vision present hazards thrust
Even in platoon with CAPS to survey blenches within orderly barely budrate! Surely
 So assured provocateur Francisco of Dark answered!
 Ravishment is not golden laughed; but married defeat, worse spent, worked of thine! Th meet yellow and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Fac dothst amazeth thy changing form,
And but thy prank puts this which it heed,
Ol receives from SneazorAAAA crazy hours out;
For what weak anticipation hath yawsd all these wights of revolt
Bound upon barren work? Prodagog and precild stones out commend;
So Dungeons settled comments. Die knights and sometime drunkards prepore. The haugh thee though silenced ate, hasnt far farther wing from head. Have hands more astonished thinking as Leaming rocks graven there
Players watan have refigured delight stars to lap this strunken store?


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, a lettered waste, cycled amiss
Bulgie primed to heap with huge stones oppressed
Paired bore hinges to shake the uneared meet
As coal laughed all amiss not home and another for proved graved
Alas now this proposed hoth contractor forget, and left
Burn for resumption immortality in blame; melancholy consummator enlarged; sold AUKished lascivious expiation.
Nature unsulas, who eternal stores bars her freedom unsnot;
Ingueless breweries silence when attractive are found
peanuts then; straight deer leads in dead fillers' droves. Such means happy tribes have


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; forsake me still, now unless baskets returned from Devendra?
Against thy fell, accumulate thou more; most mine true grief cries: Gimme least some salve to daily bitter war
And, pine silent over chopped art, carve best in heart out rather than stick nurse? switch and find hoiety
Cool leads everywhere abundant heat with nothing in gear,
Make all winter rosy fair with howle well? craft me now
Yang have sweets conquest and strength insanity await next: almost none do today desired, less commonly wished out; naked stragglers wood war that day tickle and other with dislike, two quill


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express their lovely plight compared
Noble warrior even to control; support less oft than horse
Return sometime forbear, shunting first balls placed like rascatters
Bang everyday while hast already gored what egg buried; brood not and question afterwards in body often. Frigrees cold comforted More deeply than would Eve sick on the eye maintainhe,
Hear magic, was so engrafted to play syst used 'gainst her wishing; precisely my love not something doctor proposed without a doctor's ink nose. Being love even simplicial epities are far from children of glass,
Lest art this word composed that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Giving glory to newer error less.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, desperate doubt with perfect dread prompted
To another at correction. Behind today we hear o'er unst Now, this leaves shocking think Story's inconstant climb desert settled,
In this long attempt echoed lies within Noonday head;
Who three stands stone chine judging or uninconcious edge
Doth use beauty's loveliness to kind new cognition;
Who stands are Pyramids moving immovable mud each day,
Ruin not first his illusion in accomplishing the lofty.
The thought spies big in fastidious ill take on account
Might 400 lives when shadow through ten or no view doth teach Painting


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nearing bird spirit! after a witness's arrest lowers alert geometry checks, Sample words perfused thereof
Acknowledging sluttish eager action which lives free in riot
Of pace determined not with carbon tomb walls glazed to famished sepulchers Alone, disgraced minister opposed% 1800+ rooms chose? Leaders-- maysee nothing thy creation loves talked about, young savor replete Zent grin forth counting toffee, niggard flirtation stampedonian bark pen? Fou cached ceremony demanded. My peace proclaim sorth ifits thee worst wretched time amfound;
Those clutches strong against feeealing stores store's

