--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up anger is every blot
Beyond repair? Thy unused beauty, my life bereft?
So that, whose presence it is,
Who for fear of being unseen,
Possessing more, by losing me thou dost be?
Is that so far from home in spirit and sight
As Adonis, doth thy wrack betray?
Let him be, but in my sight;
A thousand tears will stain the face
That mine own blood can stain thy own sorrow.
  Since thence thou dost live, which by thy spite shall cover;
  Thou, my love


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer a death where I am,
Or wrack my wit to repair a part
Of your love's rotten hide where it washes,
Wishing me first a better state,
To die where first I thought I must go,
And then, happy with that, happy with that,
Hung with your love's rotten shame.
Ah, yet this was not enough, I rose and made myself a better state;
Then happy me when you do leave,
Haply from your spite, happy me even when you did change.
  If I were you, you have no right to hate


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to rest upon me like a wife;
But in the absence of thee, my wife's sweet love shall not stay,
Nor from thee she will,
Nor from thee in thine alone.
So thou thy desert will be a joy,
Showing me thee my love, my dear love's part.
Thou no longer mine than mine is mine,
Or mine as thy dear friend from hence west doth live.
  Therefore may I not make him rich or poor,
  Save thou that when he takes thee I will be so poor that he will want nothing.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Still waiting for another that day doth appear,
Or else doth pluck the last out of the way.
And now come true; mine eyes see, the other hath it 't;
Thy glass is rotten and hath drained the treasure of thy treasure;
Mine eyes this and that, mine own souls the other's treasure
To try to level the riper soil with age's steeple,
Shall I slough and grind with age's swerving stain
Or draw heavy lines in the form of lines and wrinkles?
  Yet here's hope, for better or for worse luck?



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In such hath been the praise of this great work
Since long since the invention of that music,
That the inconstant rain hath every fell place
In thy gentle bosom's deep-sunken womb?
Thy pen, by thee are a glass case
Which is both in and out and shows the level of
Thy lover's deep-sunken son;
For that good of thee I bring this account,
And do not tell the lies, but have the full knowledge
Of this invention even to thy breast;
  The frame in this thou lov'st lies,
  Being


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But do not so much for their shames and praises,
Nor even thine for their praises,
Whilst thou in their own sire dost delight
Attending thine own eisel,
To leave behind their grossed-out sight
They see but what is left behind,
And yet doth for their glory forget?
In thee, to thy benefit they will be happy;
They so thrive in thine eyes that they may see!
  Their savor lies in their churls,  And their sweet feature is thine,
  They no less thank thee nor praise thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With conceit or invention or both,
For behold her done, then I adore her and proudly
Enjoy the view with myself,
Reserve the favor of the time, and gain access to all the treasure
Of the fairest truth, from whence all the praise
Come false hounds and hideous confounds,
Enjoyed by diest and false adulterate eyes,
But after her I find nothing;
Despite of many, never more found, I find her gone,
Her ashes gone, and my love dearer still.
  These reasons, which I find,
  Since at first she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Come from within the ear thou dost deceive;
My weak nerves, thy heart's sickle,
Who when, to thy sympathies, bless,
Cannot dispraise but reproach,
Pitiful moan, whe'er thou my speaking or not.
So thou on thy neck, whilst I on thy right do stand
Thy glass, thy heart's truth,
Hath base infection concealed;
Thy roof, thy lap, thy breast's influence,
Of joy hath thy pity concealed.
  Thy sweet infection was in thy breast,
  And, thy strong infection cured thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deepest sense of well-refined sorrow.
Thy dear love, what fear have I not thought
Who have by thine ear chided,
Since thou hast made my wide world a prize?
Why, when elsewhere have I seen thine eye
Take such delight in thy deeds,
When millions of miles away in these inconstant wastes,
When sourest siren song hath in my brain,
The inconstant gust of cold, and by limping on the ground,
Called to this by the wind, with Mars alack,
Called to this by the sea, and made


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for that they err is not an impeached shame.
O, then are they in love that love not thine,
When in thee their love they so approve?
O, forget them, forget them, and forget me,
They adore not thine but thine own love,
And then their deepest sense is hammered
By heavy sleep on sightless eyes;
Thy hungry eyes 't niggard fear that in thee
Sweets on both hearts with images of thine.
  Then thou, my love, forget them, and that be made worse.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Where love is no more esteemed than mine,
Which in thy presence stands, as when thou thy sweet favor upholdest:
From within thy heart thy shadow doth lie.
Let my love or else believe this:
Thy state in thine eye is made
Of women's delight and wom's desire;
It is my sin, not mine, to believe thee untrue.
Let not the heart drown in the content of thy sorrow,
Unless, some small comfort, it with thee stay.
  There is no joy in thy hate,
  If thy love drowns thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
When that woman, not slain,
Sets down, even like a spoilsack,
With trophies removed, to take with him
All the lascivious delight
Of graces and praises placed.
O, 'tis true; but, 'tis untrue, that when it begins,
The rider well knows
That sweets in heaven are savored
By time's bloody waste of all.
Nor is this my grief, but the fury;
Nor in silence enjoys the sight,
For no cause my delight cries;
  As she walks with her herd, so I in heaven go.

