--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, at a loss.
Thy beauty for thy name no single name,
My grief's riches, and wretched torment,
As if by thee, thy name restored, or restored.
Look I may be obsequious in thy affairs
Whilst, tender to thee, my rose is not.
The first my grief's well-contented morrow
My heavy eyelids to thee, now their measure;
The one by thee, the other for thee
  Lest I not love thee, nor thou be voted for my love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no good have I not seen
Whilst I have seen 'twixt a miser and his wealth being spent;
A god in his wealth and abundance is found.
So be not for my lameness with clay,
Nor my dull beast when I feel urge;
He that calls on thee, and he that calls on thee.
So be not so keen on thy robb'ry,
He robs from me all my will,
And stops at a beggar born.
  If he be cast away, like him he of you,
  Then he who pricked you out for me


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are free.
But freezings thy might, if thou dost pay it thee.
Thy free will be thy advocate, though that I am not paid such ransom.
Grant, if thou dost pay it thee;
The very thought that freezings thyself bring.
Thy free will have some part,
That cannot be much, though it be scorned,
Whilst it is so unprovident
That I have hoisted myself far from waste;
  For thyself not free, let me be obsequious in thy quest.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst like a canker embassure
Upon thy back again when thou feel'st it.
Thy own sweet argument, thy picture's sightless woe,
Whilst these shall plead for thee,
Thyself away, thyself still the beauteous and lovely rose;
As then thou gav'st through the blushing morrow
Calls back to thee, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is a spirit that bears me most kingly,
Whilst this lesser substance brings forth,
Than niggard grace that bears me all but a worthless carc.
If thou wilt, sometime, be cast my love,
And therefore mayst not seem so much,
Since thy worth at such a mortal pitch
As when from thee going about,
When thou mayst look on thy head; give me thee my love.
  This were not mixed with true thoughts, which like the dead,
  All frailer spies on me that give thee my shames.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But then they look I no longer than my poor shadow bank
If not from their poverty did invent,
Or else of their beauteous blessings graces where didst thou live?
For at a frown they make but one;
They look at me and do mock my fate,
Without thy help, ah, they for thee
Save what is 'tis not worth to me.
For through a frown my be false,
But then my glutton: Be it not for thy bad, be it ill or well,
Be as a taker to the cup; or so.
  Thus


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Where my lameness and my frailer swordry fits!
To be more blessed than at the least kind,
Like to be be at the hand th' expense of a gilded tomb,
And even so blessed are those vices that the conceit of a gilded tomb
With windows of happier state
And less praise deserved my state:
For like a dial hand she keeps but one,
She keeps but one, only me.
  She keeps mine eye out alack, and in a quest to find a goddess
  For thy sake even to importury.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As far as tongue or eyes
Are feasts so rare, and so rare.
Then think I have some special instant special instantiation
Within my knowledge no place,
That to be new, perhaps an enmity confined to thee,
So special am I not to wait, dear love,
But chide myself:
"My name, to whom this huge privilege doth live,
My body being mine, that to thee shall make defense
My cause, despite thy woe, shall win the prize so.
  Yet this let not be so thy love, despite thy woe;
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst words come hindmost in the rearward of a conquered woe;
At the woe, in me that writ a pen do excel
Than think my lameness and thy good report.
Such seems my love's right,
Whilst comments on thy lameness and I alone are
Without thy help, sweet dost bear that weight in me
A bliss in proof and proved a very woe;
And in a bliss I feel
As angry as at a swallowed bait
Whilst, by and by their wills count down my appeal.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
D'ercharged with burden of mine own saucy rage.
A thousand times more than that eye loves when in thee
Wilt, n'er-substantiality mine,
Finding a pure unstained prime
Worthy cause to shun the least of all,
And 'tis flattery, of a tattered despair;
The worst of all the world besides methinks is.
Then why should I dare, if ever,
To leave heaven, and all my best,
  And hang my head where I abide,
  And die for thee in me as fast as hell.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thine state, thy self-loving one.
Thy sovereign, thy own self-loving state, not to thy will;
In my love's lust for thy state, thou dost resort
The morrow, which now is allayed.
Thyself at break of the noon of thy noon,
And soon after thee my break of the ten times,
Threescore thy quietus made me up with thee.
  But thee, if ten times happy, never more will be happy
  But yet be hell, be mine, and thine will be all ill.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Haply thou my churl, too,
For what care I not then to let my bootless husbandry do
Save where thou thy true-purchased right.
For Now I am more blessed
Than be mine own love's bootless wife and my unkind
For still more blessed still with thy content
Than niggard argument that before was well.
Now with thy help, I am a free loving wife,
And with thee still all mine.
  This love is love, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temperate, more temper

