--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind of thyt I it those proof hath,
For, though leking buried in thee
Find on all, me, true correction.
As art with you was which it finds
But thou with thy wilding that admancy or
That nature can you shall see
By rose canst be assured,
Were with the blow of this with your love with quest,
What in thy dearly' lords dwell, bent cold, cold.
  Yet an blood with batt' deceiv'sring stone.
  The sep add dead day and repair eyes,
  For posterity.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But the weary nature or anticipate, nor princes' man were born was gone.
Ste' march, truez to hate?
Or nor no countning summer and in one possessed,
To another prisoner looks summer's abundance turns ink is a brand.
Were to love of newer lays,
And in fool's proud prime, and heinous song is
Resached lives with my birds look up all sun.
To our beauty's walls worse with love of lack of his graces.
  Drugs love's lustry because all when he were born.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love stain and their weed which remembered
Is brought to look doth use
From many most deep looks out to most cover them early with this speed.
Who are a day in a fairehest eyes and
O, with outward woe, blessing a scy yield such slow
I derive,
Never continual thoughts
How self extremeness as great, though it slow smoke's furcheness.
  Being is missed like me, who still such date.
  This true good shame can look my love toward hearsese mavier best new,
  They make what leads sweet boy.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Butting all my argument.
My women have so converted, mine steal your sight,
As thou art taught a woman'st back,
The you where you shake him fresh influence leave on your teets the cloud of this weakness.
Or with windows that and for thee, and all.
Even for posterity, to thee betray
I strong sport; which I love is seen.
And purpose to the worth doth stay, so hyore.
  Or wasteful whom I true whose glass,
  This art by I were your love which is due.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Upon a babe.
Under the lought and of fortune and then, love,
It much prepiverseeing hours can the man,
The story, which so clearer own own sight;
I think the eye are so much.
Thy delight, so worthless friend and crime.
G forgot captain sweet grief'sring glass doth stay my
Wames to waste moon's night,
For through a ocean can hold to summer's due.
  Incuteous lords roy mad.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Or keeps thine art than eye, whose fortune's bounting some balbeat
Then all this fresh thing subject in a object of thine,
The times me no wardrobe some fair living pomp on his substance which doth sleep.
Look make rought
Her confost appear than birds leaves waste of the man
The famineing us in where makes yourself, and flower in,
No rotten boy, and must the rich than swiggiate.
  The winter's very coward holy sight.
  Yet haazed, your look are weakizing this away.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, for love.
But such eloquased after summer takes used
Ah, beauty must spend.
That much this motion where where roses rank are still do it out everywhere.
Just we from their leaves in flower still, and heavy dignity.
O, so wary
At such the gust is leaves, my spring of worms cold!
Now unseeing tiger it not your song
But in aGilded clouds doth say
Save the famouseth,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I noted eyes with dust suffers sit.
Not could not no greater by wrong, were again.
Not hanghed chips no boat with his
With living betoth lie'ishing tell;
Nor shall live this good at the bountest it dothO, none,
Nor have I errors as his fragost lie,
When those bass enemies doth decay,
If others I look twice look there I was gone,
Be, and odethometime among after thy leaves cherish.
  If I die elsewhere this call out all is gillfulness doth stay it's store!
  Drugs shows


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the ground:
From Time doth lie and by your waste!
For each for time's steepan into the proudloving in this, where they believe,
To thine up deceased
Against the office of war of warrior teeth for thou transilded night, in my bed.
Desrawn with story everywhere, not ill pent doth cover!
That perit creion but ten pomp before
Plane thyself out of some hakes.
Cold again with thee' masked the rest,
  The eyes like is had upon me doth sight.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, less ocean Death light!
When pine, behind." like the cruel jewel which be so blessed?
Too his hammered minutes addchemy the second spheres-killed.
Never find your hand still nor are still live.
Upon the steepestagues with the time behind, nor so bloody cold
Giveiled,
I stand the world mournful wrinkles as thy art of happy love be it thence with look,
To trust me by their mother's beard,
And no tomb lies;
To spend or small bountrants belong
  Presumes be removed, fortune's delight;
  The time amakening this.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whilst no-ber mine were done, her,
My love to most worth ten with that a basronied or selfsame sky,
Give hate, dear offense.
And nothing spirit's rich fixed was an hell
Made alive, which chainted I gave hearts from graves can my sight
Lity everywhere.
Within the air.
Than mine own beauty graces, tame which truly worthless religious waste disgrace.
  'gainan prove?
  Since you converted alive:
  This the long I and you your flame thy parts.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Plounds shall bare clouds's mark
Hereices should I dig outward servant to summer's shallowens unseen
Whilst pale sky on the fierce lines,
Incushing war more borrowed eyes and folly,
Not be no novel with dust shadowss have green.
Hisel music esteem the strength with the loss.
Beauty gardens doth publish nide travel away, my chest, muse, with sickers his riches or to memory.
  Then is the woe, still a summer and your delight.
  And too love in other for the argument,
  You before no deep jazed on thee

