--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in white the faces of my dead friends. Yet there is that rarest of flowers,
That almost lies in thy painting,
That, like stars in heaven, I in thy sight
Will cry out in thine eye: 'Gainst thou all this help, mine eye so rich
Which in thy brow is burned out of love and spite
Of fortune's cruel vices, to sweeten thy body's treasure.
  So thou thus as Fortune gives thine eye the skill
  To see where my dead friends lie,
  Where poverty reigns, where war rages, where thou my


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch the clock tick?
When the clock of this rage-beaten world stops,
My friend being slain, let him be buried with me.
For for myself alone 'tis enough that I plead
And plead with my love's slain blood,
And I will be buried with thee, my friend and me.
  Yet 't is not enough that I feel that way,
  For every one is mine and mine is thy love.
  If in my love I do love myself wrong,
  My love is my ghost, my lover's treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
That pursuing thee on my gain.
My fair mistress' slave doth moan
And groan, that she hath not some heinous crime committed
To prevent my being possessed of thee.
Mine eye, too, hath seen to thy advantage
Thou art a diviner in particulars,
Now thou art the tomb of a murd'rous,
And my good captain in false wonder commits
Another of his heinous delights,
The third being my lawful desire to return.
  These are but the external signs; yet when thou seeest them,
  All eyes well know thy worth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And tired with paying thy debt.
Thou art so dost strive to break up thy debt
That my sour thoughts with thy unskilled lover shall break,
And so make me free of my lease of love.
Thou art so preposterous, so unfree,
That nothing could persuade me that I should break,
Even thou whom I hate so much.
Never dare I flatter my jealous love with thy spite,

Nor tell the truth of what is in thy mind.
  I cannot love thee unrespected,
  But like to trespass and abuse thy gain.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No matter where thou dwell, thou shalt find in mine eye,
Shall thy glass watch thy countenance,
And for thy treasure there thou shalt find
A thousand eyes but one--the one that watch thee--
And all alone save those that know thee.
Thyself thou chief'st thy subjects but thyself,
A thousand eyes that thou razed in mine sight.
Mine own eyes are dumb and oblivious,
But in thine own sight those dumb eyes rest,
And dost thou survey the world.
  And for thy treasure there thou shalt find
  Or thine eye


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know not thy heart's content, their frown
Which thou art bent on decease.
O, not proud, none of thy inward striving!
Such is my love, that thou art confounded
When beauty's boldness doth look,
And, to my loving thought, doth thy self behold
Planted and obstructed;
Like to myself thou shouldst part with thy all
And overturn thy face and lose all respect.
  Then thee shouldst doth a rude tyrant torture,
  To whom thee all the pride and all the honor.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Even if she were made a true sun,
And if not, my love's conquest would disgrace me.
Now, behold, I might have thought this to myself
By this tattered youthful appeal.
As is true of love to me as with grown men,
So it is to this that I think that I am gay.
The roses tend not to lose their delight,
Though in flowers they do lose their edge;
Nor, shall I wonder, do they change their shape.
So that love's scandal which lies concealed,
Sings to this dregs the roses with their excellence:



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
This is no satire: I am not untrue;
In my parts I do grace both
And heaven and earth with thy services;
Thy bounteous memory gives salutation,
And in thy store I hold the knowledge
Of what is in heaven's store.
I will take care that thy poor judgment do disgrace
And disgrace me all the more by thy deeds.
  Yet I hope thy vices do revolt
  In heaven and earth and I will hell in hell for thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more ill
Than my name's style's true character.
O, dare not let me speak with too much substance,
For how many a wise tongue would break a bough
To say I gave you the lease of life?
I answer, thou art wise as that of worms;
Feed not worms where they thrive and do breed
But nimble nimble boughs in the weed,
And all-powerful tenaciously feeding on weeds.
O, that, what a joy that I think when my tongue speak!
  I love thee so much I thought my invention lose!
  This,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And to those whom I love I reproach thee
For thy glory, or my wealth for thy sins.
Now if thou desire, I will remove thee,
For thee this great crime and that crime so strongly slander:
Thy use, my love, is one impiety on this earth,
And for this sin it bears this blame:
A thousand lines o'er a thousand,
The unmoved subject at war with thee,
Called the 'savage' which thou pour'st upon my hate.
  Yet in thee thy passion grows, so much so that I deem
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And those who own thee do much good.
The world, the ear, hath paid their homage,
But the world hath not the privilege
Of posting it on thine own word's pluck;
The tongue therefore hath made him office's slave,
Hiding thy rank niggard thy self in praise.
He that doth read the world's best, to this account doth speak,
Not knowing thy worth nor thy title,
But far from thinking on thy sin.
  For that I may not praise thee,
  Because thy worth hath so far outstripped their worth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Called well to the high heaven, she delivers her babe
To the humble shelter of a widow's heaven.
Such is this state of affairs; that in me still
The scythe that no viper doth carve,
In this sharp-piercing knife in her hand,
Grows thorns to the heaven's heavy bed,
Rounds with lambs, razed with trophies,
Dosed with trophies all naked in her decrepit bosom;
Then, after this brief tempest have I slept
For one long night in the deep wood,
Whose white hairs blot

