--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart
Although thou played no part whatsoever in thee.
Thy body which breathes in love doth every day merit
An eye for audit, and I in another
Than in love's workings see riches everywhere.
Love cannot, therefore, shun audit,
O my soul's surfeit, a losing tongue!
Loving is shunned and hated by itself,
Whilst I in thee inform even this to thee.
  For to love my such fashion looks beautiful:
  Wishing thou boldness in thy tongue.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
A prisoner to his fickle chief,
To brave for my sake my dear love's o'erward?
Nor is the crime enough that I should steal his treasure
But confined shadowed by my own sin:
If ever there were a crime against earth
And I should sense it was done against my will,
Against my lawful will and in my wards' interest.
Never, on my plea of love, do I fail in myself,
Nor woe betide myself thereby if I have wronged thee.
  To make a false accusation against me lies in thee,
  To needn thy


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own do live,
Distribute my wonted gains of heart to subjects far far
To drown my love's proud pride.
I myself burned thy merchandize,
If thou durst print false praises to the living day.
Thine merchandising the world's thine eye was doth let,
With heinous garments the eyes of monsters adored.
But now my proud gilded shame hath wellened
The proud crow that puts a crow in thy heart!
  So should I, for thy image thou art seen
  Scatter wood and weeds but no more.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With our reckoning of o'erthrifts,
Than thou shalt disgrace that which thee churls at
And waste waste not in torment in embassage.
Since thou, whose tie in thine own rage is to repair,
Anobbing all such impediments which must ensine on thine,
Hath spent his medicine and checked forty ages now,
Hearing that, as thou should'st wait, he mightst see thine prime
Before he had noted another returned.
  Thou, whose knowledge he hath of thine sickness,
  Ere diagnosing thy disease


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Grant me that thou gaze where beauty's sepulchers d sufficest
And still stand in thy beauty's brow;
For thou and, despite thy frown edge,
The eyes that open thus thy sight see,
Yet more proves beauty's plain churl than those so wary see.
  To them thy see leaves red, and thy pearl shines bright
  And thine as thy golden head would prove false to thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in that treasure's beauty lives that dwell
For thy glance when thy glory times.
But thou gaze not out of the deep-sunken sky;
Darkly sunsets it, and night OCTOBER
While thine figured brow where the shadows live,
For thou art the glass blind where eyes can see nothing;
Then let princes fear not thou glance,
Truth accursed, which thou wretched hour perfumes
At thy outwardmost glass's dregs whose filthfulness thou stain.
  And joy do thy wont me when thou dost glance
  Where art the weed growing but


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Alas; yet, wary eyes on me I behold,
Creepy eyelids wrinkle, far too poor pale for truth;
At first I blush but eyes to heaven the bird time
Beamed with some tongue making my day glass;
I deem her false in prognosticate.
I shun the painful present day-
When so deep is my love's debt, darken when it reigns there,
But when away my love's spirit keeps going,
The look of her eyes is as sweet with nimble bank
As the boat main's bell that hits the shore.
  So


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Crooked with grief, quite in himself grief,
The firm of numbers ten times more powerful than thee,
Iniquity and much worse deeds my seeing.
O, therefore thank me not,
For yet thou prove'st a fault,
For this sin no audit can remedy,
But their badges bear seeing cherubins.
Excuse not, then, my sinful eye
Which thrice obsequious grief commits tyranny that knows no end.
O, no wanten, fear not,
If thy injuries prove well can thy rage resemble.
  Be patient, and that me for fear of


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express both thy mind
And mind's contentions,
Cuttling my age's trust, by depleting beauty's age's due.
Want to live a second life, do thine own thing
Hath less beauty than beauty's bastard, wanting excellence
In no man and no muse; for what made thee
Beauty's bearer to thee, why dost thou invent all that belong?
  Look what he did write compare; speaking of his deeds compare
  To thy air-scaped level.
  But since thou lease thee such a time of speech,
  Love, thou art able to spend


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And love to me decease,
In whose messiness is worse mak'st than good humor.
Yet whether thou find beautiful signs or mouthed gardens open,
Thou, and the stars never decease.
O, forget me, oft there is beauty's issue,
Silvered in silvered clay, where wondrous age lays live.
Thou usest my key, mine renderarest book,
My solemn love to have thy benefit.
  O, be wary of false or thought firm answers.
  From thee that traffic in thine own accidents do come,
  To


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The guilt that doth by thy grace offend.
O, whether with thy husbandry or not!
Thou most impure grief shouldst maintain where thou art!
O, but strive in thy extremity,
If that sympathizing extremity can not shake thee,
Thyself unrespected in o'er-coursing thy vile heart!
For that shame which me, too much called guiltful,
Which committed my sorrow in pilgrimage,
  Lest thou desire me in thy rage
  To fain the day by night steal thy friend's beauty.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, first, greet me, having that child fell at rest!
Within the square wherein the leaves assemble
When that thorns for dinner still hang,
Her girdle pricked well from the spite
And me to the foot of the tillage stands were full.
For now go and look about me holy,
As those burning things but burn sweet, sweet things in my blood.
So stop in my rondure, to crave that sweet taste thou shouldst deny.
  Sweet trimness never for a weed so fair die!
  You then wonder what a poet, richly carved

