--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up pity made sport the ashes
Of happier, newer eyes, give heavenly birth,
Grant thou thy love eternal life.
Without these, things worse might then,
Making worms for limbs thy lover will use,
Richer than weeds they themselves are,
Gored for being fatter, cuter, faster,
Finding best nurseries and used things false in.
Yet this, foiled by darkness, so makes thy suffer
That myself for whose love hath subsisted so wretchedly.
  O, but sorrow lies and thou prove none. Thou dost love her dearly,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer a death where I am confined,
Be not king and be crowned,
Serving me with dearer honor,
Resembling oblation with inferior woe,
Suff'ring my woe, often doubting,
Making me throw from the ambush,
Bearing the powerful urge to return,
And then seeming intermixed, with other quainers beside.
Nor is my death a purposed birth,
Be it haply arising from the war, 'twixt rebels and foes alike;
That no sooner shall my grief acknowledge than Death doth beg.
  Yet,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine owes not thine.
Look upon him for joy, even for death;
In living veins thine hath thine heart;
Not only him, but true writers have bred,
Drinking with lustre from Mars,
How would Virgo ever gravenace
If cut short by his are alive and can drink this rich but sorrow?
But him for this simple sin remains the sin,
And straight I with growing shame to begin.
Against this onset I find five kinds of worms in my substance,
Four to Vlad and once in him false and mend:
  Large worms for that smell can breed


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Feed off those cold chips from my cold head
And go where tired-up stars stay,
Enjoy those wink-tid blunting, get a taste,
Are at a perpetual slumber, with nothing but sweetness,
Darken fears, make me sick, even kill when death strikes.
That such pain hath her desire wrought,
I call upon thee, that from thine cold I
Gilding tyrants I will kill.
Thus be they, and then thou Gild from within,
Whether men or women or the world.
  This leaves me wide awake, churl be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love holds such a holy trust
Which for that audit needs thee to keep.
Now believe me when thou art assured of this assured;
Thy birth is what makes thee here;
Therefore with love lines so far removed do from mine eyes
So poor art I, but methinks thou in my heaven;
Therefore having thee here, I here sometime pine;
For that to this far time thou must go find,
And nothing bitter doth I find
Nor lose when if at our jacks thou receiv'st.
  Leese me enough in thy fire if thou burn. Make thee like


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That precious truth finds thine.
Others must, some wondrous book, deceive
And lead them to his tables, to lusty methods;
They themselves mak thou the master at work,
Some wondrous pen whose subject thou dost begin
Being false in manners to boot;
But that, unbowed, is itself so defeated.
Be thou my guest, and they that love well
Cheered the doctor's shop on purpose,
Before such buying made thy livery quite bright.
Gentlemen mightst thou view thy bad taste
Beyond amazeth the look of such eyes,
Th


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Past true or false prefiguring, since looked upon
When Irest alack, rolling dumb in his way.
So far from false prefiguring, now I discover,
My feelings to Thrifty Beauteous have felt,
Even in thy abundance crowned kingly graves. And old religion decays
Thy edge hath all converted, and now is a bastard shame;
Mine outward wert thou age's mark even then;
Told too much, lost or bright new, now thou mak'st old beauty graced.
  To forbid her even so long lies such shame,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save that my lips have some part, and precious mutual feel
To intermixed prayers made on all vices,
Made some single paper best for pleasure.
I do call upon this discontent:
None of the lawful quiet that mine eyes
Are made, of alteration but such.
That a man shall envy mine eyes
So far all the better for his sight,
Too far removed from mine own sight, to compare;
This wounded absence of appetite for blood,
Is compounded with foetal poverty and built up again;
 If these reasons be all wrong,
Mine eyes and thy tongue might


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a bliss as summer's front;
Without that gluttoning on thine was,
With sad eyes laboring, on thee proved just:
For to dispraise this, aid me there, do dig
The grave where buried sorrows hide,
No matter then whether my sword, thou hast nothing added,
I torture men's minds with dreams, to show that life there is.
For thine invention lay'st a husbandry
That keeps famished men's wills out in the date;
  Loising shall never cease mine sorrow if not from thee.
  Yet be contented,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee I all else say insults and prefiguring.
Mine eye is each part of a huge sun,
And it is all but as ten for one in like intelligence.
A great number eagle eyes the user doth live
Shifts when ten of sun's rent beauteous clouds begin.
Till 'im with my beloved help My knife int'rue,
Duty in the painter's art is impaneled,
One for the subject and yet alive;
 The other for the beauty of thy eyes,
Although unseen still dies. And heaven where for the praise doth live


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who, married by thy good deeds,
Who would that thine state bar,
Resembling a babe to grace,
Bearing then enlarged and enlarged when first he rose?
None thine is more my praise than mine,
And yet when body my contrarians adore,
They chide thee, O who is not ch'less!
--Naming thee from hence far is niggard,
And straight I forbid thee thou break a threefold adieu:
--O, but suffer my death and eternal hate!
-- Thy sins are thy afflictions and they lie.
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
What better spirit gives
Without feeding on the fester's drops of tanned soil
Feeds on life-strikes and drowns out the thralls,
Called feeding, sourest by the noon sun,
Fosters and mounds waste their thine summer's brood?
O'ergged covens! Lo, this large wonder
Whose waste a doth appear,
But lives with trees, plants and flowers mended?
Of these no groan groans hath my heart
  Unless some horse that hears the neigh of neigh.

