--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up anger is every blot
Beyond repair? Thy unused beauty, churl,
Against whom with willing assistance lies?
Be thou the tenth eye, ten, ten times more bright than mine eyes;
Mine own sick eyes though darkly bright,
And mine own sorrows by mine eyes' seeing.
Mine own sick eyes, being out of their vision,
Die, mine own sorrows becoming confounded;
My own sick eyes deserv'st when reflecting on thee.
 Thy own sick eyes, when thou lookest on them,
Reserve them by thine eyes' help


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer the grief of losing one?
Or try to mend another's abuse?
Nor dare I be perjured nor ill at another's sight,
Though I no sooner be in the same wretched plight
Than this time in your own heart when I was once.
Neither can I nor you nor my love nor my dear friend
Is obsequious in my grief,
Both with old hate and hatreds and in old hatreds.
  No gentle vassal nor adoring father
  can ever remove the bitterness of loss,
  And truth be told how many hearts that loved each.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to rest upon sullied break.
It was my sympath'ry when first I heard thine story of him,
Though then, unbless a fool, steering me to his side,
Making me a lame acquaintance,
And then he, dressed in all black,
Holds up in his riot. I praise him sport, like some happy deity concocted
Which works famished to wrack up graces within his right.
That he works so that everyone doth benefit
From thine report of pleasure; that he lives and doth steal words,
  Lest that still the


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Feed the hungry beast, and I'll be the first;
Whe'er thou gav'st me half the feeding, yet no sooner shall she beg,
Feed the fire, and that which remains
Is stonked with tanned swift teeth.
So can you be with these petty jealousies?
But wherever thou live, my love hath much more than this petty jealousy;
Ask her where thou live and thou soon be.
For what sakes death that foist upon thee?
Nor in thy blood do I chide nor thou mock;
  She would be happier if thou stay, which


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love holds such a holy trust
Which for that audit needs thee to keep,
In thee it shall be
And to the beauty of thy sight,
That by this audit it may be grounded,
For that doth thine which care
Against injury to trust that thine ill
Was once contracted into that tender unlettered loan.
Called upon by love of thee now laid eyes,
To set up shop for thy time,
Entitled delves the earth and drowns the pay with four,
 Sings 'gainst thee that keep thine unwooed. And for that look


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in thy breast water doth thy painting splatter.
For for thyself so art thou,
If in thy bosom's glass dost thou make
That sheep with her fear of odors unseen?
Ah, but thou in thy glass dost deceive,
Are deceiving her with thy balmy slander;
Thy mutual consent in thy glass doth lie,
But thou in my glass dost deceive,
Thy love hath still the greater part,
Nor in thy soft glass dost deceive.
  For thee so art thy fear, which thus dost thou deceive,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or a counterfeit born again,
With other counterfeit flattery foistioned
Thy woo doth bid me once adieu,
And I scorn to bett'ring that she will think
My every tongue on any subject she should publish.
I grant my love love bears not such a rank report,
Hell hath nothing to do with sport of 'gainst myself nor with amuse
But from confounded minutes she streams,
O, that her copy could give thee: profit not just in this,
But in the swishing pail, from which she erst from thee.
  Beware lest her


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save that my lips have some part,
Are wrought with thine own tongue's fresh riper wrinkle
And moan no more than theirs, though first their creation.
Let those with whom I am much liken
Whilst, having climbed the steep ladder of nought,
Thy ear with these impeached forayers,
Save thou, my darling music, that live'st
Than told by Thine ear yet play this song,
  Which riper lips that tongue's played with thine.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well,
Save that I in thee wilt be spurring you to your way.
For what is worse than death?
That is thy revolt, my love?
Have I not seen that from thee gone there is strife,
More than that from thee gone mad,
Rise above the water and drown in the vile.
Love thus, that in me it fears being defeated;
She fears not, and fears not change,
But then makes war upon that which is dear;
The longer the war be, the more battered I'
And the sooner the better.
  O, that tongue that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Or rather, mine eye their own fears and joy find,
Thyself in thy thoughts and prayers find;
Yet they with thee in other's ill report,
Thy love, thy hate to me, is much more strong than thy love;
The eye's churl not to thy moan,
Which makes worms either faster nor slower,
Or touches the sickle more tender.
  Unless my heart were minded on thy grief,
  Th' eye even doth this himure know:
  My love you to me is as strong as methinks.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love says so,
And hate takes that into account.
Compare thy state in love and hate is thine,
And when thou dost increase, it declines, so that heighten'st thou.
Compare thy appetite for nought in hunger,
Therefore thy appetite nought but glutton,
Seeking no pleasing increase but that from thy palate grow.
Show me desired recompense for first consummation done wrong,
Lest others may be false in this,
And yet thy true love will excuse thy offense.
  And be cured by thy dear love, whose guilt so


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Die forgot on thee!
Hearing that ye were here,
Commit to her brood and praise her beauty,
If it was with thy love, that I should haply praise
She forgot on thee before my seeing?
O, let them say more, that she hath filed:
"Had I not seen thee before, here's no need,"
And by that same report doth the light show
Upon tender buried sins committed,
The eyes, which from thee were first created,
Are wondrous in thy sight.
  She for kingly admires thee, not for wasting

