--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy breast the shade of hope.
Thy outward beauty is sweet and lovely,
Though inward I in thy looks,
And in thy shadows so thy own sweetness shines.
I love thee so dearly, yet most, so spiteful,
That you thy outward and outward beauty doth bear,
And for thee, wilt thou excuse my look,
And that my dear shame should kill me there.
  But I love thee so much more than thou dost seem,
  For I shall not hold thee dear nor lose thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or give me food that makes me hungry,
Or have my eyelids filled with my blood,
For I have a friend that is dear,
And on him I pour to the cup of sweet love's love's
And he drinks my gaudy tears with his glass;
But no, no, no, this will be my trouble
Unless, heaven forbid, I should choose a friend,
That I to myself grieve on account of thy love.
  This is the truth of love, which writ large:
  All evil is no friend to me,
  Even if my friend were born


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might live.
For my sake alone thou shouldst take this great grave
And repair to the earth,
For to be buried therein thou must live.
  Yet if thou shalt graven my life, and I be defeated,
  So shall I be buried where thou live,
  As I have committed my shame, and thus shall live.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For my love is much more strong than thy fear;
And yet thou hast not the faintest aid,
And none can well praise my tender beauty.
Thou art so oppressed with envy that I love to shake,
And make false praise of thine,
That at the expense of thee thy pride calls.
My love is but so strongly conquered
That, for thy sake, I hate to make false praise of thee.
  Thy very thoughts are like thoughts to a flower,
  Which leaves nothing but flowers but flowers.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy only true self, and I alone will be thy witness.
For thou dost willingly seek my aid,
Whilst I, even so far as thy verse presumes,
Will sit on thy very right hand, and swear,
That thou art all true, and every thing false,
Yet they both mayst be false, and my judgment be proved.
Thou art to my benefit thy self, and they both mayst be false.
  If thou art so bold as to call me thy true self,
  Then let not my rage but thy will be felt.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, their deaf eyes, see not what they see
Thy light's splendor doth comment.
And yet thou and thine eyes
These blessed spheres which thy sight doth view
What wealth and toil and thine eyes
The better see with thy intelligence.
The fairest eyes that their wealth doth see
The best eyes that thy intelligence doth witness
And the hardest eyes that thy sight doth witness
  To prove that I am true, that thou art my fair and me true.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some such aught as truth's liquid.
Yet for all the jealousy she shows,
Her love is not so bright nor so dumb,
Nor that great public admiring which in public stands.
For mine own self she thinks myself born of no love,
Her wailing mine, for mine own sake being rich
Than mine own willful ignorance, being mine, mine.
  She looks on my nature with all the pride
  Which I by reason never saw, nor believe she did think so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou wilt, that is thy crime.
Thou hast converted me to my wife's sweet love,
And for thy sake my thoughts were but dreams.
For to thee my thoughts, like dreams, proceed;
To me dreams increase in length,
And thy thoughts increase in scope.
Thou art, in my dream, the sun;
And I in thy thoughts all the other stars,
Not changing thy character but changing thy form.
  I thus feel thy jealousy and fear;
  My thoughts then are like men's eyes in pitch,
  But that in thy thoughts is not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What sort of lesson hath my thought since my mother's womb?
As I behold the shadow of my mother being gaped
And all the stars in the sky to my right,
O'er which the sun doth shine,
O'er which the moon doth hide,
O'er which the stars in the night fill,
O'er which the moon doth lie.
The old hours, of thine old, and of thy days' hours
O'er which the stars in the night so bright
Deserve their precious seasons.
O, if thou wilt call them old


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which in thee afflicts me most,
Since thou, having that enlarged heart,
Seems to blame me for my faults in thee.
For being thus filled with hate, thou in me decrease.
I love not what thou lov'st not,
Thy sweets which in thee contain
And unused lusts both for thy image and thy goodness.
O, what a heaven is there where the time's bitter frost doth hide,
  Where flowers and mounds flourish, and the deep-red sea gav'n all the rest.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that thine self-love and my own self-love
Are intermixed in this happy state.
That thou mightst be condemned to so odious an end
As I for love's sake in thy sight,
Cannot myself be converted to thee
For such a bad determination of mine own worth to sin
As thou with me should convert.
O, but in this state, I so much love thee that I hate thee
That thou with me should my verse seem a fool.
  I love thee so much that my poor rhyme mock,
  That thou shouldst be converted by


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Against the day with all her might.
So, being wakened by this doom,
Makes haste, for at last she finds
Three swift showers out of the four winds;
And with the second one hastens again to the front;
The first one drops dead, the second gazeth away,
The third, losing her, with his swiftness,
Roses his wide bloody hell for his blood.
  Yet, like an unrested bear, the second gazeth away,
  And the third with swiftness, losing him,
  And with swiftness he falls

