--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And for thy sake have put on black eye
The very worst of unfair grief.
O, let them be, that I in thy sight
Have seen thee frown on mine eye,
And on the sorrow of others' eyes;
For their sake I have seen thee frown on mine eye
And on the grief of others' eyes.
Thine eyes, on thy part, have made black eyes for me
And on the grief of others' eyes.
  So thou, thyself so dumb, have in black eyes the pleasure of thy sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or with your help to mend my grief?
O, no, I am the one; you are my all;
I am the one, and you as my all.
So then my grief is not enough,
Nor my friend's grief to persuade me that he is dead;
Nor my dear friend's grief to persuade me that he is
So far from temptation, so far from false advertising.
  But that your help will bear,
  I am not so sure. I am certain that you are, and that you love me well.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Is not ruined by your largess.
Now I am free, and from the bonds of trust,
I can trust him that I am not false.
Now I am free, and from the bonds of trust I am,
And from the bonds of trust he will hold,
He will ransom me for false advertising.
Now, if he ransom me for false advertising,
He will ransom me for love of you.
  So he will ransom me for false painting,
  Painting in your esteem,
  And then he will ransom me for false painting.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to boot she will not be sufficed
Unless thou give her leave, which she will not.
Thy glass will be thine when she drinks,
And her glass will be thine when she drinks thee.
That's enough for me now, now I must live,
Hung with the filching infection of thy filching infection.
But then, if she be cured, thou shalt be a free woman,
And be a free woman's advocate.
  She will be, and she will be--
  Thou shalt be her, and she will be--
  For thee and for


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy active spirit in thy will,
Whilst mine own will be, and mine own weak heart in mine own weak will,
So that by thy presence I may be brought in the way,
To the knowledge that this poor beast
Is not in the course of my desire,
But, being made, I am assured it is of my desire.
Thy active spirit in mine own will, which in thy will,
Thyself in thy will, is in my love, and so dost thou deceive.
  Thy active spirit in mine will, thy own in mine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that in it doth live, and in it doth live.
But thou, the blind, who in thy sight
Sinks the world into a hideous night,
Dost thou, the wert thou, the wert thou
To gaze upon this hideous night,
Sap checked, mine eyes are out,
And my hungry eyes, all dazed,
Are filled with the hungry night's breath;
They see but the moon and sun
Not in thy sight, though thy sight be dimmed.
  Thou, the blind, who in thy sight dost deceive,
  Th


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who, all naked, might in the least prove my love untrue.
But, heaven forbid, I, when she walks
In bareness of thee, I fear the worst:
"Thy lover's art false, and in thee
The world is made a farce,
And thou, my love, in thy breast
Dost deceive the world by thy deeds."
So then my love is of more benefit than hate?
  Thy love is better than mine, but worse than mine,
  Being made from thee, that her tongue may seem.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For when that tongue insults my speaking breast,
My life hath in this line a wrinkle.
Thine eye is better acquainted than mine eye
To the quiet hours of thy breast,
And my life in this line is at a standstill.
But that tongue's report of thee
Is so false that my life in this line be
To die for love of thee.
O, what a happy title!
  Thy love is better than mine eye's report?
  Thy love is mine, and mine is the glory.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy discontent, or worse words my taste;
I, in thy breast, speak of
Thy lover's wailing, of which he is so fond
To wrack the riper with debt and ransom me.
I, too, may be false in this,
But that my love hath no wrinkle graven there.
Thy lover's woe is thine,
And thou, my love, shall be thy woe,
When that tongue that doth rehearse
Thy argument will rehearse, and then be proved
By looking on thy woe.
  And,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they in thee do mock and mock
That I in thee have no respect.
Thyself so gracious and kind-hearted as thou art,
As I in thee do,
As I in thee do in mine eyes mock:
Thyself so gracious and kind-hearted in thy heart
That, in thy heart's content,
Thyself so kind-hearted in thy heart's content
That, in thy heart's content,
Thyself so kind-hearted in thy heart's content
That, in thy heart's content, I in thee do not approve.
  Thou that art


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Or else mine own love is better than mine,
For thy own love is better than mine own love's counterfeit;
Thyself thy advocate, thy own advocate's lie,
Suff'ring thy own praise with mine own slander,
And making me tongue-tied speaking of thee,
Suff'ring thy own praise with mine own slander,
Making me tongue-tied speaking of thee,
Making me tongue-tied speaking of thee,
Suff'ring thy own praise with mine own slander,
Making me tongue-tied speaking of thee.
  For thee this sin


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For what with her haste did she pluck,
Or from the abundance of the herd?
Or from the strong jaws of the wrackful beast,
Or from the fierce jaws of the wretch?
Or from the fierce tongue that calls on the wrackful beast
To tear a living wrack from the ground,
Sets down a living wrack, and dies as fast as the wrackful beast
Sets up a living wretch, and dies as fast as the living wrack
Sets down a living mother, and lives twice--
  And, ere long since,

