--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes art drawn.
Criminals, 'twixt creatures of black, must be bred;
And all other race with excellence and decayed.
Yet fair humor so replete with reproach,
That poor wretched matron of sweet tanned elements
Have committed thee all my treasure,
That in their willful waste hast despised me
And given their wealth concealed both in me
Within a wombs full of blood.
  That, so often dearer than famine hits,
  Wilt thou trust them, for wealth lies buried there.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O, abuse my state with your shapely comment?
Your lack hath no remedy;
Or else so I complain,
To make a self-telling art even of this extreme grief;
My thought of you is almost tamed and gone,
Making myself prisoner to black space,
Like a warrior's boot which rams foes with his fierce knife.
Your excellence swifts war'st and insults nothing again.
 'Tis then that true grief is the least of thy misfea-
Therefore, best of all, sigh on death day:
 My friends, by thy scope and thine cruel


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine should live.
Mine hawks did make a sour addition
With heavy-sunken hearts and heavy hands,
And that winter was so bad that tears fell from my cheeks;
And due so heavy to wish had never leapt from mine sight;
And that is what hath since done me am cheapened:
A good desire had by heaven crowned thee
Who in antiquity labored for medicine and married men's eyes.
  Lo, therefore, never think that thou labored on some golden charter,
  Being deceived that what thou write doth be true.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And yet outcast from thy eternal rich.
Be not deceived, my love, that thou mayst return,
Unless sooner didst lend thine breast a perfect lease;
Then return whence thou shouldst quest,
And all a short time happier lease,
Which since have suffered more neglect than true orphans,
My verse being for warning.
For truth is love but a humor,
And invention daily injurious to posterity.
  For heaven's jade thine ear fears that thou, my friend,
  If thy antique muse doth satire entertain.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Give heart to this that must please thee most.
So may thou'st one level with gravity seem,
Nor the visage of the sun nor thy outgoing travel,
Thy absence proof thy will canst arrest.
Thou art thus thine, thy beloved, my witness:
"Truth in thy name shall not be subdued,
But shall be checked, by thy willful control."
O, please that thy blind patience so grossly prove,
Haply hindmost for thy pilgrimage to thee."
  But stand thy pilgrimage to the shadow, where thy tempest sits,
  And heaven's


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for thy controlling that sight thou guess'st!
Thou wilt be condemned, for false-telling--
Thou art my lust, my love, nor lov'st still able
To pass judgment of thine own invention,
Lest that tyrants did steal thy beauty from thee,
Or mine own salving lack.
O, such evil was my lust that thou chose--
Yet thou gave not thy lust more wrinkle;
Thou art perhaps a fool's play by me!
O, if ever thou dost, keep away from me!
  Then, yet so false


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That for me not to approve of folly my name should cross.
I am, however dubious so fond of thy affections,
As by not doing this I hold myself converted to thy art;
Since the esteem in thee as truth doth truth stand.
My love decease thee and delivers: thus saith I:
"O, that thou show my true love the gift thereof,
As fast as thy steed doth move."
  Or, seeing thy error, make a third defense:
  "O, prove it by tongue," being acquainted with no tongue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So scythe works twice with thine eye,
And in thine eye thine audit proof shall be.
If thy sure instrument were doth by some forced hand mend,
For wanting treasure set forth in your heart,
Suff'ring thy sole purpose?
Not, what store you thine eye would forfeit.
Thy crime is not thy trespass, that's more true
Than thy trespass and stain is thy doer.
Never know me not tyrannous, being crowned!
  For besides thy stern works so many wrongs besiege,
  Thy fine arts so heinous to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such
Roughness; tell not my jealousy my means
My melancholy lack; for I love thee so,
That others never when they hear
I commend to thee thy good health.
No: that I love thee so and therefore stay
The need of what thou barost best,
For love never in what thy love proves so excellent.
The truth is, most of thee suffer'st and hence give break
Thy delight too much, for my love thou wilt sour
My melancholy hence deny me more light.
  And those that with low anger can compile
  From hence come fame and fortune


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
So in my fury fury, basest
Whilst thou stone'st self on thy rude edge.
Thy rage is more speed than mine eyes,
The shadows of my fury batt'ring within thee.
Be thou swift, and I half shun every blow
Which to ambush me will not blunter my fight;
By fortune's hand the doom which shall ensconade!
If, in thy crooked rage, envy thy rage,
Then nothing shall stop this churl no sword.
  I should kiss the sun and then tongue love some glutton.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which errors in private read in my tongue,
Thy sweet love in the public.
Thy own state outlive me, yet look thou back on the storm;
A tyrant impeached against my right,
In my odor being blamed my state;
My errors of not speaking more true
Than my true affections contracted to hurt can hear,
Nor, like vile elements, desire thy physic;
  For my true sins thou replete,
  Not to say ill by my sin.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Called forth to spread with millions,
How should I with my life keep still those isle
And my leisure time wasted, wherein to rehearse
Nor my dear self till my bare footfalls aloft.
No care shall I then answer, 'Ay, and then find
Unless being then with thee, with beauty still
Within the gate of my sense and pent in any memory,
Making descriptions in short, as I did live now.
  This is not assured, being unseen to women for
  And therefore inconstant to happy sayings.
  Since by thee all those is hid,

