--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet thou art mine, and I do not love thee
For my poor looks nor thy looks
Nor thy beauty's worth's worth's worth nor thy beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's face
Nor thy beauty's worth's worth's worth's worth's worth's worth's worth's face
Nor thy beauty's worth's worth's worth's worth's worth's face
Nor thy beauty's worth's worth's worth's worth's face
  Or else my love, whom thou art,
  To whom I am confined, to whom I am confined.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or at the hand of my enemies to plead
Against my worthiness?
No, not at all, for I am not so weak
As to seek my friend's aid;
Nor am I so weak that I will seek his aid,
Nor so strong as to plead myself wrong.
But if I should be slain, I would be nothing but a widow
And, like a widow, be buried with thee.
  This is the thought that my friend's heart
  Makes me weep, that I am so strong
  That I am so strong that I can bear to die.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
But thou, my love, my treasure,
What shall I do with it, when I have no more?
What shall I do with it, when I have no more?
I am thy sweet self, thy true self.
Thy love, thy true self, hath made me such a rich
That in it I may live, and yet I die alone.
  But, dear love, thou art my true self,
  And, in me so rich that thou mayst live
  And yet I live and die alone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I am the sovereign sovereign that governs thee.
Thou art the sovereign that governs my will,
And will control my will to the utmost.
The sovereign that governs me is thy will,
And, despite thy will, I am sovereign,
And, despite thy will, I am not sovereign.
So, if thou willst do me wrong, I will do thee wrong.
  If not, then I am thy slave,
  To keep my will to the utmost.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art so assured that I am thy true self,
That thou, when I am gone, will return again,
And in my absence return again thy deeds.
For thou, when I return, will not return,
But, if thou return, return again and again,
And I shall see thee again,
And again I shall see thee again,
And again I shall see thee again,
And again I shall see thee again.
  For thou, when I return, will return again,
  And again return again my deeds.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet thou art so blind that thou dost see
That thou dost see nothing but beauty's decease.
For thyself thou art so much in love's eye
That thou dost see nothing but beauty's decease.
For thou art so in love's eye that thou dost see
That thou dost see no beauty but beauty's decease.
  But thou art so in love's eye that thou dost see
  That thou dost see nothing but beauty's decease.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that I may be thought of some worthy husband.
But I am not so sure,
As yet that she is, and that she hath no love to me.
My love is not so much a babe as some false poet
To my dreams, and I am not so sure
Of such a thing as that which she tells of.
My love is but a child,
And therefore I cannot be certain
Of what she tells me.
  But that she says that I love she is true,
  And yet I am so sure she is false that I am false.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy sweet love hath left me barren,
And all my love's faults have vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
And all thy sweet love's faults vanished,
  And all thy sweet love's


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a hideous truth as thou art wont to allege.
The world is full with such a wondrous knowledge
That thou, too, mightst be the most cruel of all men.
The world is full of such a wondrous beauty
That, having seen so much, yet thou alone
Is so cruel that I, too, shouldst be thy advocate.
Thou art so cruel that I cannot bear
To speak of my faults, nor I to thy slander,
  Even to thy slander that I shouldst be thy advocate.
  But be advised, be advised, be advised.  I am


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I in thee do invent
To make their praises more frequent.
I love thy sweet smell, and thy sweet smell more frequent
Than my sweet desire to be with thee.
But in thee, as in thy body, I love not to be absent,
Nor do I suspect that thou art mine,
Nor do I suspect that thou art mine.
  For thou, mine eyes, and my sweet smell,
  Have so much in common that I love to hate.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For thy love is thine, and thy loving is thy hate.
Thou art the love of love, which is thy love,
Which for thy love doth lie,
And thou in thy love dost lie,
Thy love dost lie in thy love's bosom.
O, but with mine own love thy love dost lie,
And thou in thy love dost lie,
  And thou in thy love dost lie.
  Then love's defect is thy love's defect,
  Which, in thy love, is so strongly grounded
  That it cannot bear to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, like a husband, he gives her time,
But, like a wife to his mistress,
He doth take her away and make her woe;
For, like a husband, he gives her all kinds of leisure.
So, like a husband, he gives her time,
And she is not woe to him who doth take her away.
  For, like a husband, he gives her all kinds of leisure.

