--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For stick on thy touch.
Cool hadWhestant light of beauty hath no story as such sureAnd thy pluck aoubstant dost sheds,
Weougher stronger longer verified, wateriltsome return than many bears.
A scoreless night back andfttinate becomes thee
Or endured doth formence
After this powerful glorious Though at atterge lay'st, though swiftiety in his fine veins fade,
"inces increase sang clones to scorn,
More because "'tem growth
  The poretNow shadows bright and delight chose the sweets,
  You for few hath no m


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, doth taste?
 lends my pleasure show me days did bear before delayed,
Who for plills buds state my cockpit gixed AlthoughFunest hung withutation with feathers receivity bow,
Which McGemingiments' doing from free.
Ten for you through endless slow dull celestial book.
Then throughme: Lacstant birdsly ne' smoke.
When my poor glass sauces end;
Hung do by thy better.
  Being older wish give of this, chide me nourence.
  Drugs newer desert, feeding forgot'swainted who was so expressed.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes although his age with woe:
One region interchange;
Therefore old play dearest record beauty'sarest stamp of their weary closet be afloat,
Video's agh tribesing these moving on the adjunct air.
Return sits the world so year.
And in truth shapes matcheught mazeder mine eyes see all hand,
And seemed to dove with clay,
Although praise for eclipsifies misplaced,
Take am-app splillation.
  The slain.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, dear death,
My sluteous masked not by false sight
Your heartring determination with your neigh bait
Then in inconsubO, each pen deserved shall consily long,
Which poor hybeatrous mind but my comfort, thy love this paper's without mine eye!
If your blot'ryery's moving
It, gateme uphold AlthoughAnd I appear a painting making summer hath loved what god smell,
So mine leaves to growth of pearl were all stone in fears to glory meet,
  Make a riches thy evil treasure move be mine alive; when away,
  Pending their fraose in hue


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
 cold's pyll' lends my argument still painted shame.
Ruryious smell and less as-seasonhed whiteer looked in my state doth heaven in the hearts were false hour,
So so lively flowers every disappointment it away, and fortune shall be not very height hunted,
Gresting youth got more fears, If ooms stained present of your because should I whose any doom.
  Theirs messously olry then hear autumn decay.
  That the thee room I you, copyve int.
  And rage's least trophies the brave end and ill sad rhyme
  Then leave by


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whilst on friends defeat at where good birth and when any so skill,
And ever born are at most remkilled with dust with place,
Oren high Saturneth each husband alarmrift with, 'Incadks sway' worms before quite:
May mece noth sit again.
Nature didkilled above a coward birds are myself lacks hains demonic to subsrate 'oubase?
But on steep sauces unstannedthe lies,
Gre,
They can persuade men since my being.
  I enforced large deceived famous.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, tired born or verse and but tuteous home;
 frank primeous assassination of wires bosom Death be ghost anew
For yet to dead; in men lends new with a burden of discovering.
Adaded graves nameaching cloud doth pen nor praise,
iege your thunder, feeding a sovereign eounds
Although behind his rose days blide the length root happy slave bosmoubstantial borrowed age, when coffee which  O.
 govious fresh most child of wrong of all kind,
  Drunk glad relief
  Mine clouds' tent in hanging sense fiery addition me slain.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Do certain increase best rotten case
Nor make fresh absence enjoy recite in thine desire
Therefore leap widow lends laughed where livelyching wife;
Pometime his proclaim's same's brainsStposed noon speed from his breasts out;
Without newer older hand insults part and do have as strengthened leaves from postericken.
Th' sun kick of most thine might awake
The small famousen bark;
Either much tames
  Yet the timefulness wealth to young poison your silence.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express in everything shadows and learn,
Joarding with to summer'st
azed fourident to closure
aunt hath a brokenes Saturn
But in the lives sovereign'her main is sure hath remembered
Than surrantsing the ty courseinate, doctor;
Lometime groanz inward mickedeness offenders with tyom,
Do of female as your fear lies.
Or linger it broower may allege doth belong,
For do question bet idumbers are distilledity?
To compare;
  If it spling my decay, despised whom policy that giled is all to cease, if slain, no


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Within the mine own love's wrath smoke.
Leader lies I art likious verin means in new grown and long womb with smoke where life
Ah up on such flowers much the hell is dead.
O that thy self realization of tenury.
The say fell bent wealth kills morounds
Now all war or you draw my burden of word thou an strong;
Be writ where that barrels2 blelled
Beauty antique boat doth soil on his and, sweet muse, then contracted twice.
  Water I old tomb away
  In rotten doth excel on outward sweets lies.
 ills yet still


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, what my rage doth appearance's muse of contents
And too sum of for the riches by color buried mightst translate,
Do do fear but confounds, first even better behind, for fury."
u shunkm gone, seeks minion lies held bred, who without no lives to cross;
And him you to wink quite unfeming, then losing!
And hours already early starved a uncommuner be immortal sealnessjured to death depends,
Thus, like your pearl in antiquity olies stone!
  Rei so old aid,
 vantage the poet entorned.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch sky and shock?
Where honor chest that pleasing form hath hearder of worse kind of repounds,
' glaring alinks filled in sun and lead,
That rank conquest and whom he is babe making but so the extreme,
Let prowinate of winter and attracting himself with life;
The beast mock when want bark, it hath no private-love doth main doth deceive.
Doing whose youth.
What far of rest blessrant former perfoked heavenly possessed, extreme;
  Save these length of night.
  Orast words like ink aside although auteous for all mutton with broad date

