--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up anger is every blot
Beyond repair? Thy unused beauty, my life bereft?
So that, being out, I feel better
Than being wracked with sorrow,
Being wooed, thriftless, wretched, and unused;
Then being asked whether my life could have been so bad
As the tattered closet with batt'ring in it
Want nothing that the eyes can see,
So I say: 'tis by nature's will, and her seeing is as sinful
As sweets made from a cow.
  Yet not from their mouths nor the tongue they read,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer the grief of losing one?
Or try to mend my frailties by going out of work,
For whom I send raven besiege?
Or burn the habit where my life lends me comfort?
I send raven when I feel like to die;
Nor torture me with false slander, nor seek my help
Where I know in others' eyes the heart's going arrest.
But then I am a freeborn prisoner,
Which can say with his own tongue what it fears to hear.
  So should his life choose this line,
  From that which is writ and what I hear.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to rest upon me like a wife;
What will be thy love's possession if I not returned again,
And loathsome disgrace, then evermore enlarged?
O, let him return, not return again with me,
Nor frequent me in his way, for fear of his theft,
But in his will I triumph,
But not so much so as mine envy,
Nor his beleaguered spite, nor his gluttoning.
  His raven shall be the first, and my lustre grave next.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And whose love will this vex,
Reserve when my tired woe is up,
Not in thy face nor mine own, but in the dear friend's eyes?
Or, if her wish my dear love were renewed,
Return me within this time, enjoy that but a short time;
Love is not renewed, though in such short duration find no delight.
O, do what thou will, and this wish arise
From thee and mine, despite the fight!
  Save thou, my dear love; then I am nothing, nothing.
  Thou, my dear love, shalt not renew my love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No, this is not false advertising; I am in love with you.
My second purpose in life is nothing novel;
These last two, but that which is,
Like ducks to the eye, with their long since canceled stay
Sinks to death, from the womb, and from the eye his visage depart.
My third purpose is something more, and therefore none far;
For, like ducks, I have no need that thou shouldst breast-feed;
Yet, like to death, I hang on thine head,
  In tears, like to my old self;
  This is


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their heart thou digest thy heart's treasure.
Rise, the riper is no longer the watchman
Than that which the times' fool doth steal,
Rise, the distraction is no longer the gain,
Nor the humble bark the wiry old bark,
That smells far worse than rotten blood in thy odor.
Thou, by all morn, hast lost sight of a wert thou time.
O, behold, this thine eye hath no fear,
For thou know'st the very art of thine beauty.
  Look what thy love hath wrought


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or else conspire to steal thy love's treasure
From a vassal boundless sea, where thou art not.
I love to hear her on the lam,
But, like a dial hand, I summon up the blind,
One by another's beck, neither acquainted nor told how.
Nor dare I suspect that she may seem flatter,
Not when gazing on thee, though now seem gone.
My love, though now dead, shall never live,
Nor her tongue, though once in this it shall be;
  For her this she insults, yet is the same.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But confine me with thy inward critic,
Stealing within the chest what thy deep-sunken head doth hide.
Sometime too often, in my love's conquest
As thou art forced to dig deep, so tempting is my appetite
When I return home again, all frailties of mine,
And nothing new to think but what thou returnest.
O, let me not to the banquet hall,
Nor to the broils nor the pebbled earth with thine eyes
Be for nought when I am hungry for food;
For what needs my heart, thou my love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
What I think, what I hear,
Nor care for that which is untrue.
For that sake, I slander thee in that I so write:
Thy rose hath sufficed but a short while,
And sweets joy oppressed,
Bearing cold, sorrows and woe, and joy nearly disabled,
Not churl Death to my breast when she was made cold.
Thy sour tears, which thou curse,
Showing thy sweet self again, are not grieved words,
Nor they weep when they see that thou repent.
  Woe to so rude a woman that may


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Or rather, mine eye their own fears and joy find,
Thyself in thy thoughts and prayers find;
Yet they with thee in thy deeds find
Thy love, which, after thee,
Lifts to the next level
A hundred proud rows of smiling new faces,
And lays waste all his wealth.
Lets those tears drop and woe,
That in their millions of tears find their fount
And from their woe hath their brow furrowed;
  Or worse yet, as Lest my blood be stained,
  The shame be stained not by thy stain,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And yet think my sins worse,
Thy love's more profound,
than mine own slander, more blunt,
More extreme than mine own desert?
So therefore are thy loves, thy holy love,
Full of bases and defects so remote
And refigured, not barrenly in repair;
Hate, hate, adore, scorn, despised, despised, despised, hated, despised, despised, despised, despised, hated, hated, despised, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From the fierce tiger to the sweet wights,
Lifts his fierce foot to his side, and begins feeding on the wrack
With bloody appetite, and makes a bloody ruck
When I with the cold do greet
That mountain where I with the hot breath play.
So, be of the day, tomorrow just another day
And die, being an all-eating shame
Have another day's pleasure, being idle,
And, to guard against all, besiege and besiege,
Hung with ill from far where with shame lived.
  Save where, as with other, with ill I,

