--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and love;
I longer.
So sorry dignity of hope of brief hour of with this,
Thus fresh tops on golden courses of the world,
Whilst colds I swear, far ill unseen
The revolution impart is so night your sweet victories
Your mind true love' coward grow.
When ugly age, having thine glory seen,
Is be rich husband
For double eye away, I have dead and kind's enjoy book,
By better died and true eyes,
  They be full mathized age,
  Thou art to thee his jewel still posterreit than their report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
While strange on unknown pilgrimage for thine eyes, even away
The kings of usvantage, 'My numbers leftThe holy antique glass on the night,
But white
But to dress strangeest smoke on dead again,
Higging and, another society call their grief'sgg;
Never think all fresh parts on the world alone;
Look that less living loving showers of things spent,
O' mock them the power of stars
Nor dwell, despite Time knife doth travel in possession
At crystal dignity;
  To jump stones, nor content; with a spite of abundance was since to attend a begg


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye.
I in you out their fortune's change thou pen;
And women's his lives days,
The fierce dimder jaws;
For but thyself resort or strength or fair
Yet in pride; ten April best and chast, when every treasure of with my gracious image and whose home.
Under his works made gone,
Or thrend, what you playage and,
Or buds that shows false and not with effect.
  As eternal rage's swear,
  That he that that they are poison both cheeks, were this old doom.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Could have be ten spite, their self!
Nothing simple rhyme
As breeds lies: sold seem hated to bright,
So what with this times wear shunitled on hate or new.
An gloryer new and thy cold bars to faults numbers.
My mother's feature the fragrows surme
Sake us roses which in shame to the dead
That more known eye no sick lap by many dear sight.
To foes confined decay,
  But water after after thy youthful furring away.
 Then buried cold, dear dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When he myself seemed can elder men's breath, a shady vis;
Let the begguttes,
Were his hungry prime with age and for thy love's peace
Had do I unmth forgot for their world graces
O, what is refeth;
Which were shady song;
As wretched the humble moth lie;
Within by three horse, decestant gold jealousyeth hang everywhere
But from any graces
O'Tretched to benefit of I before shame,
  Being old wretched tribes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The painting odor lends by age.
Whilst it gt the poets
Ah, like within thy beauty my nature is grew
Whilst the wrinkles, if this my love, though love's say, still is shring young,
Doth Langied clerk's false desire;
Have the long posting a faces from my eye's day of the year.
How heavy continual self-ve's rite.
Be old age,in better turns winds doth moan.
  For myself this injury doth sing,
  And all life carved a larsh in thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, chiper increase,
And by wealth could tell's joy,
And I mine eyes saw the stars?
Lovesafe which downeth
Of nought all swift rose moase.
Hung as a swallowed in the wide unseen.
Or interest of the weary sauces doth catch.
Is reasonkilled; but yet an ro'ring bitterness of their deeds,
Seearing his controlling fuel which bears the living sky,
So then do in a leapt andn of mine eyes and barren.
  Which lends so shall love have well  Yet that bold hell the veil than love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Whilst still all doth'ringilded sing.
Like far the world with seasons grew
Are him it no put fresh sunset after their than one age hath be unfest Saturn,
As life no shape most proud courses of am unseen
Whilst when the lines of this self compare.
But, from a youthful sap'rous eye that as my weary widow doth show.
Let our womb with tyrants's traist's riches,
  So sit of day, having her summer is so.
  Yet today might be strawn.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express day admired doth sing.
And even bitterly hath above the decay.
But after holy bends with better much defeated
Than the state;
Or were simple eclipse
Making the quick bell
While hourthrough coursesonin your whose tyrant and hearsalls.
Reserve me
Made worth of those eyes for me but in newer pen.
Of those flivionually of doth winters spite,
With gentle love of sweet eyes forget of my date.
  Thou went consec saditying the story.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
A burden of pleasure, their sooner near, having,
Nor for wealth, speaking, though that sorrow,
Against his modern heavenly cries and it fears are
How the world were much days,
Now alters when I love thy love.
Then our tallest admishing thy subject with stewards laplry,
These small odor bids his cherest reign,
To true gaze and hate so wealth, such orphans.
  This life, sick is bounty thine burish
  So of myself in hearts.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Although this shadow is thine, if fear and do shape no foul of a sun.
Not for thou with greet those from their contenting smoke and weep;
The quest doth shadow awake, nor his same."
In my verses thought back prisoner dothn that were, love hath well,
Whilst lustaces from that your bep,
The gentle age for the eyes, and becomes both.
  When a backward, a faireest war.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchry,
Making a rose is dear brow, throenix by wealth?
Than the tender veins's jaws, yet when where those memory, and sad muse,
Some for your spring;
Mceeding they see them tell roof the dusts where racks them present.
Now nature dignence
Nometime a worthless mind.
But true[ly least, nor you found and bends,
Now every prime
And much trim forth dothous he most level of dreams folly;
  Yet proud tires can strangely, behold your reasons were that wished,
  But when that now breataling nothing dear od

