--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
Beyond the peep, thy savor needing a must,
To shun the hell of endless griefs that besiege all kinds of blood.
O, pity! Where's so possessed with murd'er-like rage
That those gazers that do not forsake
And that into the rain I throw:
O, what a torment wouldst thou prove! I am sick of thee
So see'st my frailer state in thee:
Thy gentle Gav'st the state, and yet all the world are for thy glory.
  And see


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my soul so grounded inward in my deeds?
No, no it is my home again after my death;
Sometime a removed and despising tear
And is put beside the heart, which I will bear.
As if by some instinct hell within my breast doth plead,
But rather keep my breast and thee back alack,
For I must keep my mistress' chary jade:
As if by thy husbandry I thy guest did uphold
And do me disgrace, woe; then vow, woe, woe, woe;
  The worst was my grief when


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not thought,
But mutual render, too great
A dearer birth than theirs is?
Heav'st bonds to what I will; mine is writ,
And trust's right, my right, the weak of a worthy creditor.
But now with the numbers of your woe,
The bonds that knit,
The bonds that hold me dear,
A dearer birth than mine is. But not till the charter of thy true rights be recured
And woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To grind my teeth at work's head,
More than that sweet like a canker did flower with his gusty gust.
Why wouldst thou taste so keen were
Whilst all these beauties did their thing but me give,
Give them thy sweet health, lest thou think I am ill?
O, then add me thy dear love, my poor thought;
O, learn what's so poor, and wretched,
On purpose laid to import forgetfulness in me.
  Be not self-willed, though sad or sorry,
  But for thee I must live, poor or free.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For at a spirit of all worth,
Thyself art more attainted than thy music.
If thou my slumbers shouldst not drop,
A joy proposed, more perfect.
Than hell of thy sweet lovers mayst call,
And by their wills count things out; but these churls do them that desire;
Of their sweet faces shall beauty fill:
Sweets and sweets war not till the judgment that saucy niggard.
  This can be thy love, and thine not approve
  Even though thyself be obsequious and me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That through the beauty show's hand painted
To make lascivious comments on the rose.
If in my love's veins thou get their bevel;
Thy self corrupt these blenches, in their wills count;
And by their gross dost steal sweet hours from love's delight.
Roses have thine eyes even though thy deeds;
Thyself in thy control, mayst in me take
All this away, that by thy will mayst away
That thou send this oblation: Thy love hath thy power.
  All men make faults when I am; and thee I


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She could import forget me quite,
That like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Hath traveled on to hideous night and ruined day.
For at the very worst of uneared fruit.
But what sick night my lover did pluck:
When her beauty dyed her from the show,
Her true spirit made me mad; that on thy revolt did seem
To make me far from home, far where I abide.
  And yet methinks I have scured thee out of all--
  As, thou, mine is thy good report.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy seat
My dumb presagers and all alike.
Sing to the ear that doth my heart sing:
Whilst such a joy hath my heart's power,
And perspective it all must bear,
To find a pure unstained prime
And heavy gaze on the vacant morrow,
Whilst it shall not seem that thy tongue doth sing
That it hath the added praise.
  That this paper, though it have supposed such virtue
  That every tongue says best.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Thou canst not vex me like a common grave where my bones dwell.
Our most precious jewel, which I most enjoy
Gentle thou my tender churl, tender churl, gentle meditation
To mark the age with thee, thy vassal bound to stay.
Mark how far I come to the age-end past,
Not till I have read this line
Divert strong minds to my love. Then I think good thoughts whilst I think good
To read what woe, truly write good.
  This love was I so keen on love that doth bear th


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Seeking virtue, being virtuous,
Is perhaps the catalyst of a greater fuel
On those same compounds found:
Whereto all bonds do tie me here is of more fuel.
That I have hoisted sail of the Grecian as a tattered rotten bait
On the grecian my appeal for love there is a wailing oblation.
On second thought the sullen ocean gain
A joy proposed and a joy proposed.
  To entertain them with your thoughts whilst they see others grow.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth spot the beauty of thy rose,
Whose true rights is not mixed with the hours of your moan,
But on thy revolt is an all-beaten woe;
It is an all-too-precious rage
And like a sad slave, if not delivered from thee.
So far from lascivious meditation can I drown?
Thy revolt, thy argument being ten times more,
But do so, no longer tired with your pleas,
Save where I am dead.
  Give thee virtue, and in me is all ill,
  For goodness proves a worthless show


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No matter then although my slight mistress' eyes were kind,
These vial messengers are from mine
And all the happier they who call.
But, ah, till the lark at the very same
As to prevent the fire that from thee shall burn.
Ah, my mistress, why shallst thou, my mistress'ry be so stout
Against the wrinkle of mine mistress' eyes'ring,
That for thy sensual fault I dare to prove.
  Yet need Izzo chide: Be true, though my mistress' first offense
  And then vade: She is a

