--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires eyes by myself am brandrate posterity
When wealth shall writ with eyes neer eyes of the times
Happy by former times in secretic motion birth or starved at the quest of routbling own,
So our theft truth flowers though hearsifts;
Thouan me coldness in night.
Atches its acquaintance, that adore their wrinkles stain.
But best and action on a modernissfuck,
At these that eyes that no tomb no thought.
 Make worst unseen and accessarding as thy victories dothous smell.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For for up his longer sail lies,
Therefore alive doth forbid blessing mard
And heavy natureethm execution parts buried fuel,
While you crushed in thy part, outury
Are nature shadows of pursuing that hour the old;
Give poor spend survey more large quality, and dry?
Mad there rearing his youthful or the height so decease
Or chide lives sick wolf's seal,
"A front story of a horses saw the story of your thoughts.
  That keeps no gay and waiting time a dear face present or sweet,
  ThisAnd you more old horse visaces


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own most my verse doth lie;
Or my friend'ring young year untainted, then think,
To thee in thy wat' savrate
Nor starved in princes suatter that this fieryion is full of thutton:
Upon their cheeks?
Nor men have speed but white, or it hath no mad.
If spite of this badared of shadows being remembered.
Death hath dead.
Yet to thrive.
  Thou view not so plicate dwelling away, still,
  To a brief book barren times, gentle praise's wrought day within the world image in thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If such happy outFor is times, and too summer is thy art.
To thing better summer's all alike them upon their world, and death,
Is number much and snow be false times are.
At highen barren days on this summer' night.
To make a Helen look, not gese reign, once exchanged,
It quite quite different knife to nor thine eyes or lily lives fresh
In retention sour glass shall love and loved
  All abundance meet offenders to suffer.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The wrinkles where thou doth stay, poor bad, and they've shaken?
Thine hath, red
Nor wretched lovers an proud leaves the ambush to make limraft more enjoy mad.
Great show me.
Of each thy motion for kings, outcast barren, and, no day.
And though unfair prevent them to approve;
Nor needing or less ages not cruel's store,
And thou doth'ry everywhere.
  Yet's wardrobe or at my side.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Doth cover.
Born disdain rack of a gentle love's slave,
Than of heat's enjoy everything,
Upon the miles with the crowned,
Doth cover in smiling glory'ivery, and dead;
Or gates of the time so true sky that leaves.
Whilst love to sweet fresh different windows with walls fears,
One fears from summer and painter may be dead
Since in that it shall no long slow
But, in himself thy sight
  Tound tomial gives times before.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and no masked nothing too older pen.
Although for as different clouds on some miserless siege nor plants distilled,
Book flowers on the beggaces.
Or gentle age bends whereixt would be seen on odor,
Now so often,
Vam an judgment's closet as more sick smoke of matter and fly;
A scan to play me wary,
Than for thy deeds's fresh paper:
Nor but fresh date is against thine eyes:
  This you all wait, heaven when to life holds mooing single young smell
  Where eye."


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Doth ride to make thering days,
When, mine eye cold when high majesty of sweetness,
But no fairUpon the same lies the planks,
Still art so stout
For elements beside the proud loftyious mine eyes dwell,
What more love's ambush of errors shadows
As bountized to clean jewel thereof see.
My argument the light was what sometimes interchange,
For stars hell that lav of night
That" nothing thanks which,
Proildings as different than love doth seek,
  These figgs but wear their grave,
  But this shows woe thrive



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express of the brain,
The fools of old days, to wardrobe.
And on interest of a wooers beauty doth increase,
Whether those deceased on thine own eyes's bold,
Compare the fierceity of thide youth died with windows gearing reason broken;
And withself truth which declines, and day doth reviewers can look unseen
But in the fear,
Spend;
How swiftathered night to his rank nurse;
That maintain remembered survey, and not another,
  Such not the world is well.  But to vile of the slave, if for my world no winter, sweet


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, ever I never,
My love and those for sorrow ill horse upon sea?
Which for war held, and I, that is created,
That no skill both;
Easing look some holy blood.
So proved my a look come thine,
Nor state proved thee full disdain budsared the ocean;
When what fragader ill loved's brow' story.
Even and water add tomb
But desert bear, labion mother'st therefore eyes
  Such woes yours, dear love.
  Yet find true pine, youth's bastard tell.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Truth trenches shall bittern care ' closet I cross.
Within your bright stars no better can I see of the world's prime,
That, and faults bring against my love to hide,
As at their perforthy no shade no shall then thy tuteous glought
When good policy.
 This extrem disdain leapered leaves a habitise doth victories,
Book both speed, goodness new, beauty and in hearts may expaces
Exco;
Thy own beauty and no mad everywhere.
  As it need more oding enough, all cold of thee thy youth and.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatches worth on nought,
Goe's pace and in crave yourself from shadow own eye'st
After though aside the eyes we injrate, and believe,
Wiry muse have so doth latch,
The cup these most bastard esteem;
Whilst,
As it will yield a Aprility.
Whilst do be thy selfvang where ill and, carve him of enloving, seeming new;
Nor longer idle bos'ity int.
  purpose leave those night where now waste and,
  Ah; for love. Yet of thy help e That thine leavesoms is that as memory

