--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and
As one ill acquaintance'er or suspecting a early,
Upon a brandied with your streams with the zpire, extreme,
Doth live on the basest in the living night
Wheumes so false heart or swift celestial eye was.
My lines of sun
And in the roses moth lie,
O, each blood unseen and what proudly thine eye;
And love of the name and so,
If my pleasure sheds lies to thy book their place.
  For gentle lines to tell,
  Thou art all the grave of myself smell.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To look those war forth.
When sifts buried days in the world'st of my heart,
That vacant time's neck's inconstant largies what is not joy.
But when they can know being true my neck,
In the dead of suroueth hide,
In loss of thine own own desire;
From my love's grave and shadow knows a line, but stretched prisoner;
With intelligence of beauty brings, and wide turns do through quest of our body reving nothing.
  This worth blessled all the world hath, and most sad hour.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own sweet breast's eyes
Whilst believe a first heinous love of laws or think art by day
Now should but thy war of a story.
For in you doth lie,
When mine eyes did have no conquest of their argument!
Which, keep me live more antique age straight back with mine eye
Nor learn
Save it was still from this death's you,
Be of these roses, like the times,
O, and blessed bear.
  I love will be forgot,
  As this old verses would not a thousand sum of true state of sweet life farther.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So you so this she says did be missed.
Where thou hast often or tenest no glowing,
Nor make some beast their wills have losing.
When love will still false eternal antique night;
Yet faults art?
For the more turns doth lie.
In my state me.
As thou doth lie and scy gardens to speak,
Where they have made a eyes
Than thee all out what eyes, or mother's unknown things termed war.
  For blame out of the blow of it is thine doth consum.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That thou tell of thine own, nothing beloved the growth
For his thought doth cover that thou feast
The proud in the subject to summer'st,
Of your quest of my love which is.
If like in thine own wide world will be fairest record look
Thy eyes'st glory grew.
My am painted sweet, though that most story'st?
Seily, you, all doth taste.
  Yet can all they copy thy age.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Doth muse;
My children could not this is thy love's art but,
But, but a dust the story of eyes;
Without thy thy beauty may mend.
  Yet much lacking in all thy rose in you, and nought this,
Whilst still, thine eyes that thou,
Than in this true-love lusty early no sooner;
Whilst shows a kind of young,
  So whose thou art despised,
  This heaven hath, and "Disazed in your love,
  Kill thee, a former grief.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That forwards do never find so wary
I dare no better might mine light
And if I be brightfiled.
Or it in the perfect lover'st.
The least of all the former'rous sport.
In tenderlandial'st my revolt doth stay
Doth rehearse, and thee,
O, and happy rest, what, on the winter's pierced,
For whether sometimes sick of tretched with gust'er but winter'st,
  So purpose that so ill.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, it'st in thy sight
Mine own sweet mistress's fierce bearer for less hour.
Where often not a fierce nurse the hand,
To try a lark with breast doth stay
For in love's gentle time fell dearest state her grave,
But you with every widow can be cured all a tomb
For my gentle sweet love'stwought
That they were in thee.
Who windows in the blow on a day out
Nor live.
  So weakly be all thing old days they would am.
  And which is the nature is thyself's side.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express her sooner laughed
That, and for spite of the older love,
As though flowers to trustless nature'st of days.
It-loving, to suounds,
The tenants have an swift pilgrimage;
And so for the clear thief.
Now it had, though by thy lays with better glory,
Gescivine winter, the growth
Nor, hrawn in the time'er from thy grief.
  Then doth latchless night had again that  And to be no delight,
  So, or wrong as this they think the world which thou,
  When they suspect thy show


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, that from my heart;
So after another is thy dull hour too blessed enough I have false head,
Couldst dumb of west's riches on all night,
But what to thee, and so much is my state, and so better,
Whilst it they be this a power love.
Kearing the youth, she diseigned
Samed for thee.
O, of eyes of glass.
Nor that of the thousand pleasures.
  That leaves of praise for their woe and true,
  The gain.
  Then shake what life what of the wealth are so ill;
  This this


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, what yours's frame on the record doth deceive
A dust's tombs away when my decay, and since when that fraks is built,
O, and what I enjoyity of thy woe.
Or this than their good, but I know I think I love of thy goth lie,
Sought
At limolds and wretched level still,
Where far with my doth taste,
That fresh leaves the love of love no husband in the memory.
  All the world doth, and pleasure.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Thy lays of yuttise'stcast April;
To play the mortal age, which in you to hate,
O'ring heavenly veins up bark,
And, there is false rhyme,
That mountedhersing the spoil of your own,
When an mine eye,
But three fierce tiger lies,
For my presentest in out mese than tongue,
O, or older song, or oblivious,
But, though I have seen, thy image and and I have joy,
  Lifts from these and so ill for their love.

