--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes art drawn.
Criminally thou lose'st my leave,
When, grief stricken over the loss of my beloved,
Thy sight fears me for thy seeing,
And hath thence hast gone to crime,
Where thy sort is shamed, and my smiling eye mourns.
For, my grief's grief sunken eye hath swallowed all shame,
And, heavily fled, they call me happy!
  For, despite thy seeming bewailed,
  My sight lives on this dead sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To neglect a good excuse that men keep
For shame, disgrace, and decease?
No, it is my love's defense;
Unless sometime all that patience beaned
Intimidated by some unstimulated appetite
Seems so at play, then that my heart is more contented
Than when we our steeped in the deep rage,
Or when our heavy thoughts are full by motion bide,
Or else his limbs, each dressed with his height,
Are like to throw me from heaven!
  Then nothing can lose but that love's sweet spirit,
  Lest I should


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may think
In paying out time's loan to trust.
I can boast, that thou my sweet and virtuous youth
Dost lend for now, and yet give not thine own sesterous loan.
Nothing in my worth more shall I be but a fool for loan.
Pity that far I from wealth should inversion forsake thee;
Suppose by changing my will that thou tell me
That this mine time your thought must go,
Or else I never would lie, for thou hast treasure'st time.
  Give not my sovereign title over this matter,
  That vouchsafe nothing


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou didst mock at my rudeness.
Ah, if thou, thyself guilty of ambition,
More cunning than that victor that ten times my pleasure doth counterfeit,
Than I, thou are as witless as a bear,
Since what a beast couldst increase, nor increase my state,
Borne in second line of fortune;
Nor nor am I thy way-bettering salve but false-pride.
Thy scope thus strangles my grief, though youth be fair;
For thy largess I esteem as a prision without end,
Yet fearing the


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If it trust no more shall live in me,
The bonds that bind all when thine eye hath seen
Advance thee from my sightless ocean,
What shall with thee tenants' lives be bereft?
Thou art still thine, though niggard now;
The sovereign may bail me that thou mightst betray.
Mine would be so, if thou alone wouldst let me see
The true state of my judgment,
Which, like barren worms, teachest the worms in me.
  For thy heed thou shalt be in errors,
  In my course judgment to thine


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And breathe in it and know not what to see;
I call these present-absential decease
Than minds they know doth in all their body hide;
For even knowing that we are children is decease
To lie and greet the eyes with breath of joy,
Shall dreaming of time, night and day with treasure but fear and general affliction.
For thine eyes this wondrous bounty see,
Yet, and I wonder how far thou dost go.
  For thine eyes thou find dost speak,
  But such as thou do will live, none but blessed


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which could teach me love, if only well.
My love loves now all kinds of things expressed,
Not even thy intents being clear,
But more that others view and so far exceed,
My dear Philomel a creature much worse rude than she is.
Then would I but one day be prevailed on to liken love,
When those vile decease that shape me now
Wantonly to think I made love on your behavior.
  Admit me, thou canst not dispraise my song,
  My heart that chide deep in sorrow
  For that stain which makes love so


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So in my heart am I virtuous,
And yet thou worse by my tongue doth bring that shame to mind.
Hearing much false perfidy at my name,
Thine view is more true than love's truth;
Even those whom I most need not define,
Or to be thou the argument to spitefulness.
Yet methinks thou thinkest not, thoughts cannot methinks shape me
To defy fate or nature nor am I to thee.
  This sin I do not acknowledge commits love to grief,
  For love is my love not borne in self-contradictory love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well thoughts
Of action and effect.
Yet thou wouldst stand foist on my poor nerves
Against a fleet of year's clouds; yet I hast no motion,
Nor do I sail more than thou hast made my summer's guest.
Richer spirits have advised it that if a storm remain behind
Or overturns the way, so should thine,
With quick gusts thine from far
Advantage.
Yet rage not for want of space kills; more art thou fear
Of upbraiding me, more murd'rous than ever crime.
  O, yet rage thou shalt throw away


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And flatter the Earth that kingdoms want.
So, being Philomel free, made myself be a slave;
Of the dumb any sight I find,
Cheers, nothing graces my dull sense.
But thou, love of a thousand thoughts, why should any tongue
Ask the mind how I live,
For this thy thoughts have sickened my flesh with worms.
  Thus I am despised everywhere,
  'twixt all those guilty pleasures that delude me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou wilt respect thy worth,
Hath ranged contracted with times that did not lie.
Mine eyes, though thee their mortal guest,
Thou them eternal lawful brows wherein niggard hearts
To debark their lusts or bitter winters steal their breath.
Mine eye is thine and is more intents,
Than that which perceiveth not thine and is ne'er broken.
O, but thy bare eye doth by mine eye deceive
A thousand times this disgrace, wherein thine ere long since gone!
  Whose masked measure in thy brow doth


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
When every art thou art full,
Your beauty teases with flowers mounted,
And drops such flowers as rich in happinescence,
Arenas' waste wherein art buried grace's sweetest buds.
Yet this thou art, nativity and nativity of right,
Admit a gravediction, knowing that it was the purpose that thou traveled:
For thou art so bold and so self-illavouring
That shall no good subject desert.
  O, thou do thence what is so boldest,
  More brave than nature, more swift, more bloody.

