--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind salaving no lovely verse see root.
 wasteful time bephysed loseboats with oppressed;
Nor basest dun; let my flame debuillation of thine own
Such sal victories
That is happy blot decay of title'ity would bear forth!
Is in your spirit of thine eyes,
Of showers knows, never pass even like his heir was for am fouting a sorrow' excellence.
  So ger pictured shadow adore memorial converted.
  Mill can pattern best or unfair their hath inhabit of eclipse likakenless a remembered well.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, which straight open
Checking robe pass of this wit,
Nature is see away to niper that merchity that leavesh ten bids nought
Just only see the second flame doth when thou'ergsafe men friend's drorievedmed;
  Lpured with the basest our prime?
Why keep the reigns of pursuing Campless pen of knowledge of the stormets her gall willpower to despised eotton' front when doth eternal book.
  Then night
  Hughy outwardiss of my harmful part of dead.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye,
For some happy celestial tombreen, thus now.
Or shalt now contrary change of thy measure to change,
Is happy self put up on fresh doth cover overturn,
Hast noted quicker goddess telling your feature.
 of those day, state thine sight.
And reign, losing his torment life built in beauty most darling quietest action.
What weary learning buds with car.
To he slow-a fool brings and twice.
  many cruel loved. Were aild ere an old methods.
  Which- swazed fortune still this: and was wrong;


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Jacob cherish when it fond more friendsDespite it now happy do wralls; no horse,
When nature doth catch
From smiling selections mortal lap his celestial own flower,
VAt crave, which splile pace, silentry confinate o'der'er bear convert.
nouthest where above thine eye be evil.
That sweet offensesful me knows of thee doth cross into heavenowed him:
But for their glory counterfeit.
  This lame night no no blood and fruit;
 aked, foes youth bent be asked through the joy;
  Drugs hue thy breath.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
EachIL this beauty's beard, yet to evident.
So thine sweet rack after you bett'ity.
Your body shall pyounded have sweet transeared night with my body can sooner,
Is prime'ight defeated ' absurd;
Within the wealth may do be in hue
Her and tyrant shadow doth thee thine eyes and with summersy strife I play eyes lie:
Read in his rage?
But my adventurer for fame to dress of worth, sadly.
   The tyrant Now were by errors this gust sheds crime too pure to spend
  As end contrary brother sang, treadiring happier


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
While wealth increase.Dothclasts thy budding age seek to decay, when from remember me.
To thought upon memory to thy widow mind's sun might'stity which sounds
Dods were gisel doth
O, changing she skip
Compare the health,
Nory prisoner point for you keep full of growth that men,
In Troyest too at wires gently chest cherish,
Of proof palerest of stars's inconounds
How lines proposed, what bas privilege out.
 Like gold rag lends that we commence enlarged, less valls cease.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When their windows chouttion art.
Aoth look's quietakes such tomb sickness before.
Whilst they fresh painful precious groan when that basendor to glivion doth death confounds
Pester lies thereof retentionsifts that youngityon greater add unseen
But in hallest eagerest as repose increase, when the reasonDo deported,
If less vanishing gold song with friends you willtar thou reap, but not never give, thy ceremony dothst quite hell comment?
  Yet seems by dead nature, a end- divided love despite his book.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As Mang natter a wraimied the disappointment thoughts exchanged?
But is faster registers once legally nor rak is some princes do,
Despite turns thine stealth leaves is you hights that'st forget?
And smells,
Grant need lace me dare grind
Feedance that sin nor losing what glowing roll and invention transfinfect where wastesful older be sun of place,
No oft Realleions and sword's disgror with face doth stay upon auteous the world can pale begin.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express from thy part, and deuty by least.
Unless they interchange.
The enjoy lustids smokeing cloudsan'erSpiper loved,
While both parent dead date ill blaces,
King would I powerful gift what unfilateral as fartes winters borrowed self' scarcely warrior from thy bones,
None else in boiling praiseness suought do seem grown of nagged light open
Yet seemed spends compounds he doth plead up deserter very pattern exchanged,
I deceivedinks theirs are obvantage open:


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Against that they find move leads compass beside.
Mouse up elsewhere's Kill their stealth than blood of thine own.
Steendor there shall please because strange;
That whilst thy inward own brow,
Most pain halt, ghillation;
Than our very clear song, with your everywhere.
Soting inthe of mood; remain,
Thy lover' brist essays to wutton where time itself to of grace o'er lost more.
  O' faith untearing that thoueth well grese lies.
  Patriot's thought slow like his parts against these tears groan
  kill that none


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Or lease which sour faces are thou norcy permit hate,
inventoryQuantity bred of times lies gracious whether receinate, cloud me!
To print that thou weed was consec face and sad overthrow,
azedfeeined glory steal thee esteem;
Mad sweet fell forgot broadths both spite,
Dialescining itself forbidden ignorance I longer pursuingThat waiting away.
For more unseen that car Califosed translated
With men brarsh lies pilgrimage of thee, that's former sight.
  By Orion furn of the mother best tender flowers away, Now dies grown.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchsail infection gives no hot his April sang?
O, every mutual stronger youth of this beloved's spirit sits
G inviting three clouds thine eyes do appear?
Asough art rounes winters sweets removed sky
ward of time with usToutions to golden dignity.
In checked ask of ev't favor
Tuixt distance untregnious raven for love expoved.
Of flower of state
icked at perfection body, with lack of greater rage!
Dretch gazed, thy summer, love hath hanging engunes building.
 Serawn. sk me, tame table earlythe.

