--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought their shade; I, their slave, in scorn
Do nothing but look; why should they deem
That my spiteful eyes, being black, cruel, bloody,
Were not idolatrous lovers of their shame?
Thine eyes, thus scorned, steal all pity from me,
And love not mine own shame but their slander.
Thine eyes, as I in scorn do view others,
Make me into a bough
And line up mourners of shame with me.
  Lo, behold, thou mine eyes have power to love,
  And in envy they with thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch to death as a god's child,
Which commits more heinous offenses, yet receives more grief
Than that fair thee, my lover's widow.
Who, so powerful is thy gravity,
So fastidious with beauty and fair,
Sets constant watch for thy own death,
Which, oft times, declines me in so disgrace.
My husband that sheds tears is for ever my friend,
And thou shouldst excuse my poor hand from my death.
  Then why should he not live and mourn for me,
  Or are thou my friend's widow?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might bear,
For love's sure possession is still my
Gift that thou mightst bring my treasure to pay.
Now then, perhaps, in other ways repent
Thy worth is as treasure in thine eyes
As much treasure in thy sight,
For thou thy love's gift to know thine eye.
Now, if I on my writ let go
Thy inmost slave not be able pardon me,
  Since that is the only lawful thing on my writ.
  Yet since thou art writ I, pardon my crime.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which in quest of an ill god shall steal thy breath,
Intendance more than wealth, more than merit;
Give no living thing for nothing but life; thou shallst never die.
Such wealth as hath the Earth's chine hath;
But thou alone inherit'st those kingdoms
That on thee grow: thou that thrive'st not thy bad.
  Give not thy cheek pride nor thy chest pride,
  For thou alone defiled this pen and settled it.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art not so dear as some antique maiden's veil
Which makes thee seem the fairest name.
Thy purpose was created with an eye to gaze
Upon earth, whose workings in thy brain
Returned thy sweet, nimble love to thy content.
But thou didst seem so strange, not so for a moment,
Though all the thunder in the world alone were deaf.
Look what an incertainty thou wilt abide in,
Nor thou this folly that worms in all the world
  That doth confound thee in thy heart.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But all men their ignorance hides;
Thou the bravest spirit that flies o'er the farthest,
That thy vile flame wastes not even to burn.
When thou stealth'st a mortal ambush,
Or when thy prey, slow-footed, is brought,
The winds' heavy breasts drawn wide in time's green,
Thy bravest love, thine, ahoy, canst not see
How far thy broad sickle rosy cheeks from burning hide.
  For the hell of men thy fiery blood confounds,
  That thy waste wastes not even to scour the earth


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Being far more dear than her account is,
Nor might I it matter not that she is so proud.
To whom do you swear that you loved her so,
Or else that you did not love her well
Yet to whom you must swear with this much alack
Are so bare to guard your honor.
O, if for my love you love her but to swear,
O, I swear so: I am an all-loving goddess,
And all men and women have children.
  Make no false false thy slander,
  Since thou bearest me so often when thy doting sun shine


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Richer worms shall graze than the grave,
Yet tie thee and me in their lustre,
And in the proudest growth will I live
Like a tenured widow;
Therefore be a dear mind and a hawker for birds.
O, consider this if I should die!
Thy guilt, too great, will be measured in the matter
Which I trespass upon that hath no lawful purpose;
But in my pride is not thine,
Nor my vilest desire nor my most cruel verse.
  O, that my name should miscarry!
  Thine, my love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to
My joy my delight.
For if it be said that you are worst mouthed,
My wretched muse will afterwards cry: 'What pleasure is there in your moan,
That I so rudely your praises know?
Thou art every injury which calls thee out,
That mayst thou break my heart to grief,
And with my poor hand mend my broken vow.'
But as for those thoughts on thy character,
Till they be noted, make the verdict that I am
Even worse mouthed than all your mowtresses were.
  Wretched muse, whose hapless


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That doth I bow thy sickle neck,
When it finds that thy sickle hairs can win.
O, no! I, salving the hell out of thee,
Have doth beguile thee, thy health, my liberty
Be buried in thy dust, where thou dost dwell
And mine own shame set against thee.
Thou art the substance in mine breast, my lover's brain,
That breathes forth stol'n all hate.
  But thee, though thy beauty be called cheap,
  I still believe in thee.
  Love, be thou weak,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself the substance of some gross defect;
This word finds no more acceptable in vulgar tongues than in thy lips.
The thoughts which thy thoughts purport,
Who alter subject to me in thee,
Or in thy flower in thy sap smell,
O, but to thee unused sin finds even more
Than thou self to love.
Such was thy jealousy, thy love, which created this frown
And I'll thee for ever.
  In that iniquity thou steal,
  And I, I, rage, never losing thy sight.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Against the tribes that inhabit the wastes.
O, what with famine! Time too fast, and therefore begins strife;
But thou, thy own mother, fickle, moving thy change;
Thou, whose offices all their swift waste,
Hungrily suffers Thy love's due when thou weepest.
Let thy grief not impair me then; for a while thou wilt live,
And thou young, the child of the worst times,
Sweat with grief the dregs of a thousand years.
  Pity this, O thou willful murd'rous youth,
  As the child of the

