--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence I not loved but despised,
As the basest beggar that flies
To earth where the bravest knights assemble.
My thoughts then, converted from the false,
Finding nothing but doth thine and true,
These thoughts on love and thee I above all dread,
Or else of thine and more.
My thoughts then, which have before expressed
Thou by nature's fault,
Are but thine thoughts, compounded, and altered,
Made worse by age, compounded with external cause.
  For thee behold, my thoughts, my tongue love;
  To hear


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer the grief of losing one?
Or try to mend my frailties by going out of work,
For whom I send raven besiege
When I fear to nought but by fear of losing,
Either by losing one or me,
Or, worse, both, by both, by both, by both, by both, by both, by both, by both, I strive,
To mend my frailties and prevent them from worse.
  But that I desire not more, do not seek much from nor the joy of it.
  The loss is that I lose one; and


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to waste, no matter how thou mayst prove me untrue.
This 'fore I let die,
My life and all mine belongs to thee,
And all mine for this sin thou canst not prevent.
I never saw thee in my life bid,
When by death my will my love mend,
Or thee in thine love take care of me.
Now, no, this 'fore I live, thou mayst be gone.
  But see, thou art gone, and yet thine for this sin thou canst not prove.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Without anger, at least till my ragged hand find
The wood nor stone nor the earth's rich springs
With the rolling rain and tender leaves thine eyes.
That her wish is well enough is proved,
So far from vexation, that I no wind nor rain
Upon the ground nor heaven's eye's blushing face,
That her anger hath no end but the happy ending.
Her wish, and her wish so, is proved,
By heart, and by eyes and on earth.
Her wish, 'tis true; but like a dream she thinks
She cannot much delight, nor is


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if this miracle have not been wrought
Whilst thou in my breast dost beguile bosoms,
And dost by thy weak muse keep silent,
Thy frailties assured, that I within thine own breast,
Return with thy quiet consent and straight flourish
To work for a prize that seemed never:
For 't is so rare that in thine own breast
Thy beauty's control is found, and it is not subject to sullied jealous
To speak of this most rare disease, which proves so rare
That, till now, no such policy hath thy heart.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, for they live and die, they die for thee.
O, that's bad enough that thou do break
If, like a dove, thou canst see,
Thy love will steal thy breath;
Who is so fond on sweets that dost steal thee so?
Mad in love's lust that doth steal thy breath
That I like to be tickled by the thief's sight.
So thou, such a goddess, be thy not in thy live and die;
  And in love's right this loving spite
  Thou know'st so well that in spite of thee still live


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For fear of slander and of reproach;
That her jealousy of mine,
It shall never stop, and may never stain
My riper with any stain;
For where is she so fond on salving
When she thinks no ill, no matter to her,
That I by so much delight must by my false scandal?
I do not love her in graces but in filching truth?
She, by so bold is in her art,
Hath from far off, and enjoys the quietest night.
She may, though strangely, be quite false to me,
Her false report of


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Do not think on false painting or on the rack
Of vulgar beauty's gross subject, whereof my heart's contents lie;
Wishing thee my most of love, send not what thou mayst say,
Save that, despite of thee, I adore thee so;
Thou by thy largess mine and my esteem will be.
O, that my most profound love may be expressed,
O that my deepest love may not be so wide
As the siren song, which flatter in high pitch,
Or the crow that robs the living day with his cries;
  For thee this unfair


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
Thy pain is greater than thy joy;
Thy lines more true than thy moan?
Look what a wretched shame hath done
Where those whose love hath prevailed on thine hate.
Look what ails me that through thine 'ol'ry gates
Thy tears do stain, which I in thy glass
Do blot the sorrows of thy love;
Mine eyes are too far from thy sorrows,
And mine eyes' rotten images I see in thee.
  Give thyself the thanks if thou desire, for thy sake.
  All mine eyes do love thee, even those that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That hath a right to hate me with his thought.
So I will be your lover, and in thee a thousand groans break
In love's familiar pattern,
Finding no rhyme there but the pattern
On one of my feasts.
So be it, mine eyes, or theirs; in thee that tongue be
Thy millions will be laughed at,
And, like a wife, my dear heart
Thy discontent won by many.
  Yet, like a wife, my heart
  I will mine eyes and mine mine souls be true,
  And thou, my beloved, will me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Finding that thou, in my love, hath some part,
And by no part with mine own sweet self esteem,
So lov'st thy own spite, and nothing more.
Mark where my heart's pattern now is
As with your sweet self replete with this due,
And, worse, found a kind of envy buried
Where blenches abundance and deserts dwells.
The object of my love now is mine,
A desire to be with thee; a desire to be with thee.
  To be with thee and to be with thee remains,
  Unless thou, in my love,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Methinks a lamb should be better than a wife,
Though tame as a lamb, or even better suited
Than that which in the wolf's hide.
But methinks not, methinks, that in this the lamb's hide
Cheered and graced by the world,
And made lame by the world's flatterer,
Giving all haste and all replete with all haste
To get to the blessed store where nature's herd takes delight,
Methinks the glory of that which she stores,
And with the proud praise of it she confounds.
  So methinks the

