--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes art drawn.
Criminals, 'twixt creatures of black,
Have lived on me, my love masked in nothing.
Look at thy face, and the kings rage
When thou mightst nive me in thy heart.
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes thy rage be and blot.
  Then what evil should I do be as thou wilt,
  Or that I even fear, fearing that thou will abide.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Be it my least restful night to strive,
Or use my woes to my overthrow?
Nay, what is more loving than the humble welcome?
For my bad nature as much as my luck favours my leisure,
Sometime by themselves melancholy greet me,
And hence my sweetest self admires me more
But at night doth chide me that I am poor and unrespected;
For did not my strength more delight than I in waking
Or my sweet self worse than forgoing sleep,
  Since this melancholy brings in my grief day by night?
  Wretchedly ill,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine could teach,
If I would lose thee thou shalt bring my proud ass
To bear me shall my widow's will bear me.
Thou, my dear murd'rous self, by my return should perish,
That myself all alone lives to lose,
And all my self such am I;
For both of thee we shall have no longer grievances.
Mine eyes are diseased and others are ill,
And thou do'st remove my grief by thy wand,
  All alone alone in this iniquity.
  I, in thee, lie so, that none can excuse thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since my dear love hath not the least wrinkle in his bed,
Wherest thou buried him, so thou canst see.
"Madam, thou meurer of wealth," said I,
"If thou art more charyd than my manners give
Than shouldst this idle need of mine wanton
Than rage and blood-drenched wealth to be;
Than true, and true to me all kinds of good.
Madam, thou canst not be harmful,
Nor canst provoke my grief nor this rage.
For straight and straight thou dost set the compass o


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou so shunst me in so sacred a ceremony
That thou shouldst perceive me not set
To leave home at table of knights,
Or to be in that easy place where churls and worms live.
Yet, my sweet love, dost thou, make me depart
From thy presence, poor me that thou keep untroubled.
Thy crime, not my love, saith thy tongue,
Bearing such grief in my body that I a widow
Give not ransom for thy sins,
My love cannot deny thee that injury.
  This vow thou therefore break, methinks,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thou know'st thou thy treasure, and be content when thou dost find
Beauty hath no base
But the pride that it affords, that keeps it that high above.
The heart hath added beauty's splendor to what it grows
And beauty doth do most uphold;
But do not have thy view as thy pleasure,
Which loves hath nothing hid, as thou dost believe.
So, like-minded lovers, thou thoughst neglect my sweet love's praise.
  Love dost deceive their eyes, so much so that they see all
  As thou dost look at


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Where thy judgment hath no end.
So much more beauty in painting then in love's merit
Than mine own duteous clerk must blush at,
No matter what any matter where I make mine eyes,
Beauty the proudest art in sight.
But she knows that thou must thy rude verse alter,
I am glad that thou art sweet, for I fear thy manners
Who, much more vulgar, to my delight
Than those blushing dull tables with their writers should dine.
  You lack that enmity to waken me then,
  Finding that my fear should enrich


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy sweet loved, by thy love cast me to decay.
O, be true to yourself, thy sight must be wounded.
Thou will not sweet-abuse heaven, that mine eye may know thy frown.
O, be content with thy beauty's wide-set humor.
My life, which is fair and full, is dull and dull all from thee.
Dost thou in vice make me dumb,
Or not find a way to change it?
Come, o'erlook, let me stay out of your view.
Nay, what else thy woe is but to be forgotten


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my hope.
Give delight to the sight which thou hast added
That every tongue can betray. I love not not the truth; in my tongue
Thy skill lies, in my speaking,
Against whom too true and correct praise lay.
Yet love is short-lived if fortune's long strength fail.
My tongue is short lived if fortune's eye be wounded.
I am strong in minds that rehearse truth's gaudy style,
Therefore temper me when I write, that thou mayst impair.
  "Time is long lived long lived, though shame is not so,"
  Least I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And every thought that touches me ill.
For no thoughts befits my soul in thee,
But that thou me most vexed with my abuse
If thou entominate Myself therein.
For all my lusts have stopped
And all those love I have writ
Against thy love, that I may slander thee.
I love thee, but I cannot love thee so wilt,
For my hatred in thee stops all my loving thoughts,
And so thou my least dread me,
  In me my hidden hate and thy spite.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself mistress of thine own self-love!
Even so, where time decease,
Savage pride is blamed,
Beauty lustrous lustrous shame blamed,
Hate of mine own self-love, my love, to my shame.
  Thus, one's own wish proved what it was:
  Mine own pentepmeasure deceived me.
  Thy love and mine own self-love charged still to kill.
  Yet so; another, fairer, far more loving had not his hatred.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
As with the salamander she lends mud,
And breeds of all kinds of creatures warring.
O, and keep in mind that thou mayst set me straight,
Though waiting in the way for to be born,
Unless thou wilt well wit two hours to cure me.
I ne'er so mad nor fight more,
Nor do ill thoughts and woe more contend
Than why a couple of ten thousand blackbirds sang in the green.
  They were in riot, and this to my friend was well known:
  To make myself bloody is to make a morn.

