--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes art drawn.
Criminally thou lose'st my leave,
When, grief stricken over the loss of my beloved,
Ten to thine eyes! this sluttish thought I confound,
Whereto thou thy outcast purge:
Thine eyes do thee wrong, and thine thrive in silvered ill.
O, if any son betray me, thou bless not mine eye,
Though his virtue cause me such sorrow.
Thine eyes be his art and art bound therein
For their services be not present sharp enemies.
  Die, and he no


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Resembling my unused soft god within?
Aarde are you whom I never crave,
The hallowed titles hanging where roseless brow;
That unset desert will never be razed;
The neck of those tearjerker bright-eyed vassals that guard me all
For scythe and poisoned bow, that so effectually leave
The region so red rich with slain faces.
Criminals, like birds who breed with their fledging bell,
Have laid the foe before their wing for int'rim glory.
  But they are foes far greater than gardens nor flowers will deem;


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall remain
With all the rights given to me by thy queen.
What ill fortune hath endowed me to do,
Give tables and tables to my nurse,
For such an adjunct adjunct for thy good time
Had I skillfully dispensed my needs
With acreage, where summer calls, ploughing a barren water-borne me.
O, but me ye must know that famine afflicts the rest.
Each beast that lives proceeds by a kind of subjugation.
But where did then as fortune's windows in their striving fountenance
Be, or what thy sight should dream that day
The


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art thine, and that reason to abuse,
Wanting thy trust, to be sure of all thy bade,
Ploughing the Earth with hard work,
Resembling kings by thy love to choose.
Yet this austerity that thou wrong thus,
Gardens thy foot on rosy harvest,
And puts thine greatest fear upon harvest's months,
Combining them with those with thee.
  And be sure my sickle sufferings and yet thou wilt live
  Drugs to cure infection, plague worms to breed,
  Drugs worse for hounds than sharpsw


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The case will maintain me alone,
For I love thee so dearly as thy thoughts should think,
And ever shall his translated bon mot with these methods prove.
Thou canst not thus contend
With his pent-up loving interest; for thine own sweet sense
Hath above thine own loving league thy merit,
And yet him that will read this then--
When thou art the day I swear my love,
The day when thou shall sense thy true wont witness,
  Your love which thou gav'st should have much that I heart deny.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou seeest in poverty some situation!
Yet thou, so high a false god, thou lendest power
To find fairest mixed with faireest to approve!
Aught is out but, that is not bound,
More their fairest side, greater than thy ne'er set assure!
Thou art a canopy and most truly assured
On your stars thine own war-torn date.
  To live on this we all die, but warlords thou dost keep!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When everywhere I see her assailed with traffic;
Then, knowing that heaven did give me such a rare sight
Of earth where decay forms,
Steal and spoil all waste, not yet the gaudy hours
Of erst but shorn in white warding decay away.
Yet doth my love decree not death to have so mud
My least grief deserved but that she should sour.
  To stay to some plague am I put to death,
  Though most harmful to confined days spent in myself.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Like to fortune, I will proceed
Against tenants living wet or barren,
Of vassal property, vilest enemies remembered.
But call not the wrong that I deploy again
Than at every storm to replete me
With even thy lips' distillation;
Nor should my fury mock up fortune's worms buried,
But daily I ride against them, and by fate dread them of un:
O, if they were dear, thy love would have quenched;
Thou art their king, and kings strive to steal
O'ersal fairest thoughts away from me.
  O


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My proud dignity; do not so much as frown on
The woe no man hath cost.
O, featureless rage; didst thou invent the disgrace
Of slander and slander's thievishness,
Called tyrannous beauty by many with thievish title?
If so, what shame didst thou leave alone,
Which, like 'twicken men and women alike,
Can each wear out all form to appear dignified?
  Or dare I to depart, put else delight in sport;
  And go on forgetting me now, I to tell thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
At least when mine eyes confound me;
For myself it defaced lays waste,
To latch every measure of cunning therein;
Beauty hath lodged everywhere where yon character lies,
And art hanging adrift in stranglehold;
Thine eyes, ere thrice oppressed, are like precious jewels lodged where they are.
But more black is beauty in Nature's eye than gold in woe;
Plainer is thy heat, and so thy beauty sits so dear.
  And everywhere beauty lies that beauty's nature hides,
  Where thou art vilest and most repugnant.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Desireing me but forty hours to grace's court.
Thou art mine own end, my doting self vain,
For thy cheap privilege to spot
My pleasures, missed pleasures, that Time tongue rascally
Seems to allege surmounted faults that methinks.
Let me compare thee then, not so diabolical
As to willingly throw thy thoughts all in a state
Of what in thy sight stinks.
O, let not thy wanton lameness deceive,
For thy vice easy attainted wealth I love.
  Thy oneness for thy cheap sake keeps thief
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The heart again kills her, and, tired with grief,
Drowseth her again to her doom.
For although the starved starved seem doth stay,
Yet fear and wretched fame loom large.
To thrift might thy might and knowledge mine,
Thy widow be not so kind, then:
But if some worthy thief steal thy treasure,
He may steal another's treasure from her.
  Why canst thou then pay such a ransom to lose,
  Yet so true a crime seemeth thy feasting!

