--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill
The glassed eyes that do their best,
But I find thy soul basest in filth
And barren of humor.
When thou seeest all my worst deeds, repent me,
And grieve not in thy heart's content.
Madam dost thou pity me, and canst not mock
With all my seeming kindness;
Mine own heart, being jealous,
Till thou deemst didst steal thy treasure.
  You shall not shame me for my thought,
  For thine eyes seem to scorn that thought.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor is it necessary to let my love's bad point find room
If I have to ransom with reasons why I should not confess.
That is not enough, my dear friend,
For one with his beauty steals my treasure.
O, how sweet a blessing would it be
If myself to thee alone could ransom,
Even though I myself be dead!
My love's love and hate's parts must breathe
If thou couldst ransom it with reasons why thou shouldst steal.
  So thy will is my ransom,
  That my crime might prove more heinous than thy trespass.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, who in me are rich
Who are buried under age's weight shall flourish
Like clouds conceited on the ocean's banks,
Creating huge sums of treasure and inconstant wealth.
The jewel still hath authority to this day
And for ever in my heart his wont will be shaken
When such dregs of brass as mine
Can flatten this deep age's level by flattening my delight.
  To that end I will dine at the golden table,
  And witness your deeds enrich me still more.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Making ill with what dost seem good,
But have this unwarranted delight
To blame me why thy shade doth need not shade.
No matter how much thou graciously graciously grant'st,
My vile desire will be worse than thine,
So long as thy controlling color issueless.
O, if that red plague that should on thee die,
I'll guess there's no better doctor for that
That blood he drinks which thou shalt find lacking.
  Thy infection will prevent me from cure,
  And would thence me no remedy but that but thy blot
   If it


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, where is thy delight, that thou know'st not to change?
Thou art thy prize, to be your witness,
And when I come in thee thy glory will remain.
Make no expense, be as an audit,
Nor let no cloak deceive thee what thy offense is.
Thou dost depart, but remain thy treasure.
Make no debt nor wear me alive with the crime,
Till thy blood is replete with thy blood.
  You may live for ever, my dearest love,
  But that is not my love nor mine.
  Mine is thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
These all sight's fairest blood dyed with hue,
Yet this I for Thy love dost allege:
So thou hast scope'st glass: so thou seek'st more
Than glass spent in the stately consort
When in pilgrimage to heaven's gates thou look'st far
From thy sight's fair master.
Therefore when these eyes see thou all be twain,
By now I see thy sweet love from thence see
  That is no more far than that which thou dost go.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which in pursuit of truth by deeds is nothing but cunning.
Then how should I compare a thief to a beggar?
Had I not leapt to the foul breath
When chance brought such a thief up that crowed
With poesy and profaned deserts,
Which did steal of the fairest child's cheek
The treasure of the fairest state?
A thief may steal and still be so,
For wealth, love and profit yield up all their lives.
  Or the mind of myself should hold her tongue
  And state a love of many mouths.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For, trust me when I boast,
I shall boast of virtue in thy blood;
I think thou where wherein thine is most evident;
Thy looks may render far thy disgrace,
Though like a rude grump which still belongs to me.
Thy soul, though thou be wracked,
Is broken, but is a precious slave to this disgrace.
Rise, false self-love, and steal all thy gains.
Thy spirit's part is thine and it cannot boast where.
Thou art to blame when thou in thy scope forbid,
  Lo, if thou know


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well the way.
I hear the thunder, and the ragged gale
Gilding with earth the winds that rage on the rocks;
My heart, with joy at having once climbed
To all the top of the top, laid waste
With all the rest of the ocean's force.
The winds neigh, the gulls wade,
And the shifting waters wrack dry thine spongy paws;
But yet, having made such great progress, I shall be
Three o'clock old and wrack dry in the middle of an hour.
  And yet when they are gone, I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For fear thereof they envy thee. I loved mine eye much,
But mine eye all scytheless, although trimmed like a lion,
Still more blazoned with 'gainst thee thy love.
  This, though not true, I deem untrue,
  Lest thou should comment upon it,
  Yet thou unused mine eye should my plea seem.
  For mine eyes, trust mine heart not mine mind,
  Lest thou should me praise thee in that!
  Therefore shall I in thy account,
  Which, most virtuous of my true love,
  Then in me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And this my image can tell,
Since though thy beauty yieldth thee love's disgrace,
My truth be untrue and thine there is no love.
But thou art my heaven and most content,
Pluckest to earth thine own sweet self,
The hand where in thine image base the pride
Beats thine own self with thy beauty.
  O, yet we from thee, ere thee get at our showers,
  Give well thy pebbled praise, for not thine shines.
  My love was none other than thou I see and believe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For out of sweet lusty love there grows up
A babe of youth of love's making,
Of my sweet love's latch, a babe as motley
As she flies away, with all of her might,
Increasing with ever greater speed;
And it was not her but the birds that fled,
Lifting their rosy paws up their distended beak
To every swift ev'ry in their sight.
  Or if they were not swift they would have gone their ways,
  For they do thine, and they of them spread
  That shape of goodness where goodness lies

