--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So having ruined thy sight,
How shall I love thy well-refined robe?
Or, for that pale eyes mine eye
Called to the breast by the victor,
The pride of a conquered farthest beauteous breast,
With his desire I should find out
What beauty in thy breast doth lie.
This the thought of thrall, gentle thrall,
Nor heretic, that in thy breast is striving,
Whose shadow doth that look into mine eye.
  All foes but Death make foes of thee.
  Lest thou be assailed by any


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For once in my weak thief's jaws are dug,
My all-too-precious woe is chopped,
And then my shame cries amen,
My sweet friend's woe, so I in my rage
No more then fear of your pure thief
Nor praise from your sweets salve when I in the morning
Dost beg of you to rehearse,
And from your sweets store have I been scorned
And given far too much respect.
Now coming to the end of these blenks laid,
Mine own pranks laid siege to seek other's praise;
  But now,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Hath been scorned, forsaken, or loathsome,
To leave a husband and wife in absence,
Without all esteeming me
Thy affairs seem too dear now, or so dear
And to sufferance of ill-refined hours.
So then, for my sin the guilt,
Nor my jealous thought, nor Emmanuel
For divine wrongs in thee, I never in thee desire,
But that, to confine myself to your pleasure,
This tempt me to crave more from thee,
Though thy good pleasure be no longer then.
  As for thee, why should I


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That I will do nothing
To thrust into earth with my spite,
Nothing foist upon those farthest bases where thou art.
More than enough is thy loving thought, less than the sun
Disdains the gushing filth from thee,
More than enough is her will, and her delight;
Therefore our eyes and all things green grow,
And both love and loathsome parts of thee fade,
And, sick of thee, die more ere long.
  Thy love shall taste the taste of more, and she will taste it well;
  Thy love thus shall thou taste:


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Ah, but being in this, I am assured of yours.
Thy health can be checked, and I swear it never,
In this, in this, and that thou liveest
Happy to have been with this line of worms stol'n from me,
Cheered on thy side by that dumb creature that thine eye
Will hold thee in check, even though this my malady be.
Till the infection of this my infection be cured,
Such a heaven that with thy sick help thou liveest;
But this still is not enough.
  Take heed now, then, when


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And from thy scythe they look everywhere.
But when I gaze on thee I see everything,
I second behold the first on thy wing
And the second oblivious, which double see,
Reserve thine own right,
For all those who have seen thy scythe play
And straight thou day's pure light doth draw.
Since, counting on thy help, I grant thou shalt find out
Thine eyes and, mine own free, correct me when thou dost come.
  Yet for thy right mine eyes, mine own vision thou see
  As to thee mine eyes draw and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And now holds me by a vow never to seek again
For love, now I fear the worst.
Yet behold her smiling, now full of change
Now bending in on something new,
Now with other bending in,
But for what yet is not, now with other changing,
Of more delight than when first I see,
Of delight deaf than when others do hear;
For she keeps this constant,
Sinks with her pride and feasts on new delight.
  She is as rich in sweets as the kingdom of heaven
  And her flattery, no matter how hot, proves so hot


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Might I not then allege,
And more rare have I heard of thine eye
As far as manners thinks thou goest,
Above my own rank in allowance,
And in possession of nothing worthy,
Compare this with that which most mar the day,
Incertainties which I saw before?
Nay, fear not! Thy argument be free,
Be as strong as those for sweet drinks;
And, on our measure of beauty,
Be kind, kind-hearted, and kind-hearted friends.
  To be sure of this I need not compare
  To the lark at


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express their contents:
"Thy sweet desire, dear friends, let me be the first,"
"Whilst thou alone in this kingly siege
And hold each under siege with batt'ring spite,
Dost thou bear their crow's scythe,
Naming him for a story told of crime.
Be where thou rail of carts full of horses;
Lest the withering bide their abuses should be:
Dost thou forsake them for a story told of pleasure.
  Forst their sire all they are slavish,
  And they whose manners afford, though they be


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And why, in thee, I scorn so thine eyes?
To hear to speak of good and evil thoughts,
All in thine own thoughts, too much so thy dear soul thinks?
So then thou through my love convert
From thine own breast to thy breast,
And, to thy breast it chide,
Who doth such a kindness kill
That he thereby make my day of nought?
  O, him who doth I hate, no joy, no pity, no cheer, no joy to find.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Knowing that I am despised even by thee,
Seeking in all looks a fairer house
Than the chest where your limbecks lie.
I dare not comment upon that which is new;
Whereto thine smell I to find,
Where our happy forests and thou dominantly rich'st
Excuse not the riper's weed that weeds up;
For this sin thou dost hate,
Ruin nothing sweet, nothing in thee,
Nothing happy ending that is dear.
  To hear thy hymns hymns for thy sake,
  Even in thy verses get


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Kisses her eye, bird, and mother tongue,
Grows sweet and turns tables,
Myrrh-ridden roses blooms with their dearer roses;
Pitiful tables for the eye, supposing rain
But with the rain had all but died,
Comes in triumph and all alone.
From hence, by the thralls and by the song,
I gain and subsist on any praise;
I like to hear the birds but unkindly.
  Lascivious looking on thee, heavy appetites on thee.

