--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
With all the world out, and I in heaven's shade
Seems fair, though poor in this hell
Have cast down the world's most loving eyes
And made my heart a closet full of worms.
For to the world my love is confined,
My heart in this hell hath no home,
Nor my love's appeal to heaven's air.
So thou, mine eyes, who in thy sight
Save mine own souls from this,
Save mine own souls from this thy sight doth lie.
  Thy love thus I feel, and thou, mine eyes,
  Save mine own souls from


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse than death to stay awake,
That in the night my heart
Doth nightly plead for help?
No, no, my friend;
I am the wailing head, which nightly drowns
In the night by night's glass,
And nightly prayers drowns the night,
And nightly sweets make the night worse.
No, no, my friend; I am the wailing head,
Which nightly drowns the night in sullied sleep.
  Or worse than death, which nightly drowns the night in sullied sleep.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined.
For him that takes my love for granted,
Myself I'll be a fool,
And he that takes my love for granted will be a fool too.
So then he can be, and he that takes my love for granted,
I must be of the view,
And he that takes my love for granted,
So that he can be his and that he is his;
He that takes my love for granted will be his,
And he that takes my love for granted will be his.
  So he that takes my love for granted will be his,
  And he


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which for my love needs no remedy,
More than enough is my love's strength,
More than enough is her love's desire,
More than enough is her love's desire,
More than enough is her love's strength,
More than enough is her love's desire's strength,
More than enough is her love's excuse,
More than enough is her love's strength, more than her love's love's disgrace.
So thou, my love, mayst desire,
Thyself to boot, and her to hate.
  Thy love is thy strength, and her strength's disgrace.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy body, thy heart, is the store
Which, being full of thee, is not removed
From the store where thou art, to be sold.
Thy glass, thy heart's shape, is thine,
And, having thee, is the store
Of all that which is but glass,
And, being full of thee, is the user of all that is not.
For thee this is thine, and for me this is all thine.
  For thee this is all thine, and this is all thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, if they see thee, they look into thy face
And, 'triumphant' over-preciousness
Thy lustre, thyself so full of filching lustre,
And their gross ignorance doth deceive,
For what's so bad that 'tis good?
Thy lover's lustre, thy lustre's glory,
And her own lustre's glory die;
Her own lustre, her own lustre's glory die;
Her own lustre, her own lustre's glory die;
Her own lustre, her own lustre's glory die;


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or worse than barren of all truth,
For love's charter is so strong that it cannot be broken
By force of truth's might, or by false compare,
Or worse than barren of all truth's truth's truth.
For she hath no charter to set sail,
No man's charter to set sail, no man's charter to make sail,
No man's charter to make war upon falsehood.
So far from false compare, nor from false compare,
She hath no charter to set sail, no man's charter to make war.
  But that she may set sail, and be so proud


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that sin which thou mayst bear,
Thy beauty's truth and thy truth's truth be borne,
And for that sin no man well
Thy sweet love's truth be borne,
And for that sin no man well be vilest.
O, that sin which in thy breast
Thy lover's tongue hath writ,
Which in thy breast doth lie,
And for that sin no man well be vilest.
  But that sin which in thy breast doth lie,
  That in thy breast doth lie, and in thy heart be vilest.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy contented but in their vulgar case.
Thy argument, which shall be
Against thee, shall be proved
By means of thine own tongue,
Doth prove my love to thee, and I anon
Be dumb, and in thy rude tract,
For love of thee I am to be obsequious,
Be dumb, and in thy rude tract be
A thousand groans, and I in thy sweet love shall be.
  So thou, the gracious and kind-hearted muse,
  Shall be the story of my life,
  Which, being from thee, shall


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I in thee for that which thou dost love.
For thy sake, mine eyes mine own thoughts,
And my love in thee a thousand errors be.
For thee mine eyes, 'tis true, I love thee in thine eyes,
And in me mine own love is expressed,
Though in thee mine eyes this my heart's view.
For thy sake, mine eyes mine own thoughts,
And in me mine own love is expressed.
  For thee mine eyes, mine eyes mine eyes mine own thoughts,
  And in me mine own love is expressed.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I in thy bosom's closet may see,
The glass will show me thy picture,
And in it the crystal will be found
The deepest glass ever made,
The first image to my heart
Of your true love, the second your image.
O, but with mine own glass I see,
Thy love is thine, and mine is thy picture.
Thy love is thine in this, and mine is thy love.
  This my love hath no name, but thine,
  Which for thy sake I send thee to look into.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The very birds, which with their swift motion
Distracts from the herd,
Pluck up the curious smell of the roses,
Whose presence is no farther than the eye
Is from the pebbled earth?
No, sweet boy; but from the deep, where she is,
She drowns the birds and all the flies in her song.
The wights, swift-footed and mounted on the ground,
Deliver the hymns, and sweet birds with their song.
  But then the wights, swift-footed and mounted on the ground,
  Kill the

