--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For all those who have eyes to love me
And all those who have tongues to love me.
Then do I envy those whom I most admire
And whose tongues most praise,
Though their eyes are false,
And all their praises confound
To this I scorn the most;
Thy eyes, thy lips, are in my tongue
Thyself the flatterer, and I in all their praises.
  Yet, despite these, I in all their praises remain.
  Theirs is more love than mine; mine is thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To find out what I am to groan,
Or worse than death in this most wretched hell?
Is it enough that my heart, which is so full of grief,
Sinks to the level of fullness, whereupon it fears no end?
Is it enough that my heart in this most wretched plight
Doth shun the wrack and wrack of death,
Sinks to the level of fullness whereupon it fears no end?
Is it enough that my heart in this most wretched plight
Sinks to the level of fullness whereupon it fears no end?
  Or else,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will bear the heavy cost of that which I bring.
So he that lives in me and in that which he lives,
The one for whom he dost depend,
The other for whom he dost depend.
So far from him I have seen no outward disgrace,
Nor, heaven forbid, nor he that lives in me
That he will ransom me for his crime.
  But then, heaven forbid, I have seen him in such sort
  As, to be with him, I have seen him in such sort
  As, to be with him, I have seen him in such sort



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For who's better than the best,
Or the hardest of patience, or the hardest of patience,
Or the best of both,
Or both at once the very same?
Thy glass will not break
When I first see thee frown on me,
But when I see thee frown on me,
I shall see thy love frown on me,
And I shall see thy love frown on me,
And I shall be thy advocate,
And, much better than the world may think,
Thy glass will be thy glass, and I both benefit
From this perspective and from thee.
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy dial is thine, and thy heart mine,
And for that sin thou must be impeached
The very same foul as mine,
And for that sin thou must be impeached
The very same foul as mine,
And that same foul befell thee,
And thence thou art assured:
"Thy dial is thine, and mine is mine."
So, thy dial is thine, and mine is mine.
Mine is thy love, mine is thy love's hate,
And mine is thy love's hate's hate, and mine is thy love's hate.
  Thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that in their deep-sunken eyes
The beauty of thy deep-sunken face
The deep-sunken head of thy heart
The deep-sunken eyes, seeing far more than thou art.
They look into thy deep-sunken brain,
And they see thy beauty level,
And they, like to the deep-sunken eye,
Are in thy deep-sunken brain's deep-sunken face.
They do not, though thy deep-sunken mind,
Look into thy deep-sunken heart, and thou


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I may be false in my heart
When from far where thou art, I may be false in my heart
And in thy heart's contented form of truth.
For true love is but the thought of mine eye
Which looks on truth and frowns on it;
But that her false report
Is of more interest to me than her proud title,
Or me more than her proud boast,
Or me more than she shows it;
Her false report of mine eye
Is more a story of love than a lie;
Her false painting of mine eye
Is more a story of false love than


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing in the ear that doth thy heart's content
And gives me welcome, that by thy use
My love shall be remembered,
And by thy love remembered not to be.
O, let me be obsequious in love,
Who, by thy love being obsequious,
Dost love me for whose sake thou art;
That by thy love being obsequious,
I may be obsequious in my heart,
  For thou, by thy love being obsequious,
  Shall be my all-eating shame,
  For my sake to be  Or to be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy frailties more than my tears;
Thy argument doth seem, and I in it
Finds no truth but what it finds.
The hardest knife ill used
Is in my love's use, and in it is abused.
Thy argument doth seem, and I in it find
Thy beauty set, and yet it is not
Made of numbers, nor is it with the wind.
O, what a joy doth my heart!
The hardest knife ill used
Is in my love's use, and it is abused.
  If it be, it is a


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee it is done.
For thou, my love, that love dost lie,
Dost love the grave where it doth live,
And in the living rose doth live a child.
Thy love is the substance of thine heart,
And thou, my love, is the substance of thine heart.
That love is the grave wherein it doth live,
And thou, my love, liveth in it,
  And thou, my love, liveth not in it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The state wherein I am,
The one whose love and pity is
Which on thy part hath played a part in mine own heart.
So thou, my dear friend, when I am in this state
Will in my heart's content, or my jealousy,
Or worse, mine own love's part,
The one whose love is my hate,
The other's part, the one whose pity is my hate.
Thou, my friend, when I am in this state,
Will in thy heart's content mine eye deceive,
  Or worse, mine own love's part,
  For thou


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The poor babe, wrackled, with wrackled,
Shall be the first, or the first to come
Upon the swift-footed guard of the herd,
Whose swift action is no motion,
Nor the look of the wights, nor the moan of the wolf,
Nor the dull odor of the wrackled
Doth in the rearward of the herd,
Or, at the farthest farthest from you,
The first to come, the second to come, and the first to be.
  Or, if you are from me, you are from her.

