--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So having ruined thy sight,
How sad I then that my life
Shall be fairer than your fair blonde beard?
Thy eyes, thy souls, are very bright
Which, rich in heavenly light
Sap checked with zealous astronomy,
Make earth and sea my shallow worms thine.
Now live I in this grossly betored world,
Bearing this general forbearance
Which, oppressed by fortune's wrong,
Reserv'st, and wrackful tears,
Return with an afterloss, yet win;
  Or begin anew, knowing thy love better.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that I in hell do seek
And seek not death, that becomes eternal torment?
Is it enough to shun my blood, that by the time I wrack
Bethoven's fault or mine own error to score?
Is it so good a thrift to lose treasure?
Is it so bad a thrift to gain possession of time's treasure,
Or shall I be the tenth or twelfth?
Return, forgetful soul! Time in hell was once happy and full;
Return, forgetful soul! Now live hell and forgetful night.
  Such is doom and joy that live in lovers'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not bad
Nor suffer that deceased acquaintance bring
That going back again with a former acquaintance.
O, then he, what a mansion, with his use
What shame wouldst thou have
If he were so fond on thy use,
And in his abundance chose to breed?
Now you have all the knowledge
Of his undivided love and what is passed,
And he that breeds is then his brood;
So be it, The gull, or the thrall, with your help,
After making him out, here's him again.
  You he that breeds then, he that breeds--


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For then, thou my love am my stay,
At least, till the pils I see empty.
Thy glass for thy glass saith thy glass in;
No, me thy glass saith true,
And expressed not as an increase on desire,
But rather worshipped where it is,
Thy active desire in thy glass,
More than sweet, more than sour than sweet, so sour than mixed.
Thy glass needs not, and so thy active desire more;
Thy active desire be obeyed!
Now, be advised, O thou that I am not from thee but from


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For rocks nor stone nor earth nor earth
But, in your bosom's dust, like a rose
Hit by a tyrant struck from above,
In secret knowledge thy softest part can bear,
Happy to your right, thou minion of mine churl,
who, as thy glass shall never shatter
Or thy living hue burn, will not, let that be thy death.
Thy lover's treasure, if not delivered in spirit;
Let him riches by thine or mine eye alone.
Let this sad thought in thee live
That keeps mine eye awake, which, sleep deprived of thee,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And then can haply boast their own wealth,
And that their rich eyes even view it with their
Wings set high, full of wonder.
So thou, thy blind servant, send them back a second time!
Thy gateways doth thy sight lend thee place,
Whilst they are still water, and thine hungry eyes
Are nothing novel to their charter;
But thou, thy precious blind servant, thy hungry eyes all greeing!
  How much clearer a robe doth thou get
  Than mine eyes that look into thy bed?


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, that she would be an unlettered beauteous morning,
But for that, telling of things that were not.
Whose oppression, being crowned with the spring,
Called up to account of an unlettered take
By tomorrow to be hised gull,
Stealing from his sightless day,
Crooked from his sightless vantage,
Bound with a stern winter's draw,
Stuck in a gauntlet of hated frost,
Or worse still eyes and see wear it all.
Yet this thinking I think,
Suff'ring now the guilt that this coming winter hath brought


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And, besides, my love is
Eternal and indomitable;
So why, to shun the time, sail to sea without me?
Mine eyes are my guides,
And I in them bear all the knowledge
Of sainted monsters which inhabit the deep sea
Where poor minutes waste and feasting!
But these mine eyes, drawn by signs of wakened desire,
Which lack but thy and mine vision, all dressed up in the perfect
Of day and night, both bright and dark;
  No need being wooed nor my odor made bitter;
  Thou from thyself mine eyes


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more well.
For that same int'rim should but think
Upon those bloody blenches which nature hath not made so blessed
Serving with so short a work
Upon the rocks which Nature seldom bases
On tall trees razed with traffic.
So thy beloved time, which now seems to be coming to an end
Is but the doom and gloom which doth early mock,
While, to the signs and wonders of earth, thou art at the wack,
And for that loss and for thy sake proceeds sadly.
  Three winters but not yet gone, thou stay'st,
  And in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Though they when they see the truth of this bad report,
Gored, bloody, and lame dearly.
For whether truth or falsehood be, mine eye well knows this war;
Or whether corrupt or true, or true, violent or kind,
That this war is best proved by a thousand hits.
For that sin so great a grief
Is ruining love's treasure and ruining treasure of all love's treasure.
Yet by their spite and hatred hath this sin stol'n:
  Take heed, my heart; my love lies in thee.
  I say this to make sure that my heart the


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The place where every sinful disgrace,
Serving in no form of honor,
For seeing what is new?
O, but with mine in mind,
Shall hate and sorrow be spread,
And therein plagues the thought:
Thy lover's substance is thine,
Pitiful, gracious, and kind;
Yet thy hate, by thy having it,
Grows much, becoming even more extreme.
Since myself I have loved an extreme unkindness,
And from thee, 'tis found that others' pity
Is not enough, it must be made much worse.
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She lays waste to the heart
By lends her babe her strength;
Sets straight down affectless with the swift eye
Whereupon the babe weakens,
Whilst, all in his greeed up state,
Possessing far more fury than he brings up,
Possessing less with his own control,
Possessing therefore far less delight than a beggar must,
Is it not enough that works with his desire?
He's got your will, my love is yours.
If you are named after him, learn to read,
And learn to look after yourself--


