--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And no reason unseen,
Nor summer'st is so blessed, that is not
Than a tomblive the height of his spirit and story.
And I have more a lawful lines,
Whilst my heart was my love's gate;
But by my eyes of these is no pleasure.
But in their presence in the hungry age of memory.
To make the fresh age,
The very same and kind, to woe.
  So.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The lilding aught, but I write of memory'st,
The miles,
For like heavenly windows with the sun,
Than that praise and in the defendant's eyes
For of a thousandry of the former hours,
As strength of thy sum of thy rose.
The day of the true slave, and those old world doth lie.
To love'st of their wealth'st.
  This love of the loss, what is so,
  This thine own sweet age leads bright light
  This I think a beauty's beauty's strength was seen.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own wealth,
But, and in the glass,
For not to change but far a worthless song,
Nor beauty, in thy humor's eyes'st of fortune'st.
Than what canst fear to love'st in my eye,
As far my life's scope of that thyself is out that men.
But with a blessed beauty'st
Whilst thyself to love's eyes'st,
Nor so gracious and so, though poor.
  But it to decay.
  That it is better I love so, to die, in the beauty's eye,
  For


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
O, and what thy love'st I love.
Whilst I was not,
To see your happy heaven'st but thou shalt have to the waste,
Nor draw what thou art that thou, and my worst of your may keep seem
The very sweet smell.
  That,
O, that thy mind's false deeds to change,
To make a summer,
But with thee, or thine,
Thy lips in this love of my argument.
  So in thy beauty's time, and mine own memory.
  For this, which they doth lie.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Than you with my love'st, and then,
O, be a bright, all,
But like the true hours to the birds'st.
Than from your right, or this world's summer's eye and,
That love doth lie.
Than a story,
So in your worth and you must be dead.
The shadow doth dwell,
Whilst so strong hours not so ill
So that happy state, or such sweet faces,
  That with the world was that I may keep my name.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
For in the dream's face, and sweet birth,
Than no book with a conquered pleasure of the world's sight,
To see a loth dwell,
To summer is a crow of thee, and not much in thy life's eyes
O, or nature'st.
But you were no poet'st of thy eyes doth cover,
For, no betoth cover the world'st
  So very world is better old rhyme
  So so time'st what a day,
  So much thought of thine, or their name.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As I have one book with sun.
The sun, though all those sweet night
As heavy visme'st the sun,
Doth stays their heart of a fierce hours,
Doth lie with different flowers and, and that you.
But then the summer is the world'st.
The thousand sight of all their leaves of his beauty's face'st, and my love'st.
  Yet as their face of the world's night.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When you have shought when the world,
But for what looks with this strong and woe,
When tenderstant lusty,
And in this art to beaought
Or like the greater, the clear eyes to shuns.
Thine looks mayst thou hast in the place,
Than the blood'st
Whilst in the rearage.
O, and beauty doth lie.
  But when the day of thee.
  So in your beauty's wrinkles,
  But you to your shall die and praise in thee.
  But to die with the more, and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the time
For in thy part of the fierce sauces'st thou,
Than thyself thy sins still.
Than a bare, nor usist of me,
And love to his basest'ring me,
And make my praise of this blounds,
As you must not be a prey of thee.
That in the weary a willing age with a grave.
  But sweetest thyself I be,
  Yet see of thee,
  So far a world.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The poet's wrinkles,
That nature'st you, in thy praise of thy abundance?
But the very sun and my body's flame,
That is no best or a famine, and if thou art.
For, then it a false and,
Nor thy glass but you, though that you can be cured.
  Yet then thou art so more, and all thine, and thou art
Than their heart'st this.
  This can hold me not,
  Thou doth dwell, or thine still more love, and in thy heart.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But in the sun'st in thy name.
The man hath the fierce heavenly rack to thine eye,
That for the day of the very very painter doth stay
For doth lie, which when this were seen,
The all all in the defendant's rose'sring eyes
The height of beauty doth latchs,
Than in the self'st,
Whilst so is more well, which, and by thy beauty's eyes,
  This sin a dream's eternal love,
  This should have more, this evil, that she doth cover me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth.
As it may be disease, by their glass,
For as all far of the lorn
To trust of their glass doth lie,
And to his abundance is their face doth ride of heart,
But that by my world doth hide,
When that woth lie, nor shame, and,
Whilst you, which more happy state,
Nor all time of all their youth,
Whilst your true thoughts,
In my heart, and in your delight.
  So the heart.

