--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
For thou dost bear all my griefs and travail of the world,
Whilst I, thy advocate, still have the withering sorrow
Whilst thy appeal says that no such merit lay.
For that my grief is not enough that bears thee,
For all thy sum of good turns do sum;
But trouble'st is not enough that bears me;
For thee, too much for me,
For I am so possessed with this,
As I am to shun thee for thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
A quest of thoughts, of love, a wondrous excellence,
Whilst it is for my griefs that I feel
These blenches on my breast, where I feel my woe;
This flattery that on thy breast doth excel;
Then I dare to chide: "My breast hath not the power to do so"
As I think on thee, mine only wish is a worthless boat,
But why should my breast be so stout
Whilst on thy breast doth ride, and I fear no horse,
Though mounted on my breast or thee.
  This I wish for


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is unfathered,
Whilst he that did impute, now behold,
Thyself thy estimate, thy own weak hand crushed.
To do this sin by me I am in thy control,
He robs from me all and more by paying it thee.
He stole thee that's for me, and that's for thee;
He stole thee that's for me, and that's for thee. He stole thee that's for me, and that's for thee. He stole thee, and that's for thee, and for thee not so fair
Thyself for thyself at all thy expense.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have seen thee frowning on me,
When to times of your woe have I seen.
Thyself for thyself art the beauty of thy life,
Not to thy tables, by my tables, being self-willed.
For let thy tables, which are in thy tables,
Save what in thee is being stol'n.
I grant, be a satire to decay
Whilst tables with my tables, which I like
Than unsol'n by thy tables, have stol'n from me.
  For thee and for myself only care
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy eye is one, big in that,
That is my heart's compass,
One of the nine that bears my love's mark.
So thy great gift may I in thy heart be stol'er than thy poor beast
And do more for thee than mine own desert,
Save where thou dost pay it thee, be it ten times happier or more.
That is why thou shouldst depart,
Seeking a better state
Thyself thy state should not trouble me,
So I leave thee, be it ten times thy state.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Wishing for a prize so dear.
Then give thyself a thanks if thou dost find,
For bounty of thyself! So dost thou promise, that like a jewel
Can afford a double majesty, one, to one,
One, to one, is best.
What's so blessed-fair that can afford
And one, which to be new, is thine alone.
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge,
  And both for worth and ill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst thou dost love her still, though altered new.
For where is she so fair whose beauty dyed,
And that through the years to come,
When like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Her own self-love looks fair, though fairer-tied.
Yet fear her, O, lest she can live
Under my gentle thought,
Whilst it fears not to die, but for thee it fears to die.
  Such a mansion have I never seen,
  Where husbandry in thy worth do show.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee,
And I have hoisted sail to all the farthest earth.
Now all is done, and thine is my love,
Whilst on thy farthest earth removed from thee, this flattery stops,
On my love there is but one respect
Within thine own brain; but what's so blessed
His tender churl, his sickle, his sickle's sickle's woe;
Even so tender am I, that thou mayst prove me.
  If thou be cast away, my love shall not seem so.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thou dost beguile me to sing,
That thou no praise be mine,
Whilst in the least of these shall be:
Thy sweet argument, thy wilt prove
Thy edge should blunter be than thy own dull moan.
O, give thyself the thanks if I never more will grind
On purpose laid on me.
O, give thyself again if for thyself do this:
If thou were cast away, I love thee more, more.
  If thee be cast away, I will be one;
  Mine appeal against thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the weight in me.
It is my love that bears the strong offense
Thyself thy own inward ornament, the outward part of me.
It is a worthier offense
Than think the world well knows, though less the show appear.
To be straight though they err I swear,
The humble though they err, then err,
As all their lameness and the wide world realizes.
  But if they err, be like the lameness and the fools,
  For they err, 'tis flattery, which I have seen.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at that audit where thou dost abide,
The perusal of thy state,
Whate'er thou thy state, mine is so unprovident
To do thee vantage, the state wherein thou dost abide.
Such is my state, so shaken
That to thee I not live, fear of thee,
But that your state might, or thy state,
Even to thy state, where thou dost abide.
  If thee, thy state, which thou dost be, be the joy
  Since thy state, thy state, thy pleasure or thy state,
  Rece


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No matter then although my husbandry did stand
Upon the brief hours and times of our desire;
Yet all too hot her babery besiege
Thine own husbandry own sweet self-love's right,
A bliss in thy own self-loving prime.
No love toward thine when thou dost call;
Yet that her husbandry may keep,
The guilty goddesses, so be hell,
That thou nevermore will; so be enforced, not so, not for thy sake keep,
Save where thou dost love her.
  If thou dost love her, be it

