--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So as I by thy glass shall tell,
Or worse mourners' bare lips with their heavy tears,
Feed the hungry hungry worms with their waste,
And burn the poor gay pride in beauty's brow,
Whose joy hath my sorrow beguiled,
Which, behold, to my tender frown line,
Mine eyes, were even thereby starved.
For every tongue that hears my moan,
One wanders, another wanders,
But this time my cries are but the wits of this,
  Save thou art mine, mine, and they that love me send thee here.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that I in hell do seek
And seek not death, that is better than hell?
If it is, I am not so much of a woe to hear it told.
Hear the bell telling my friend to 'go'
Whose dull bell it doth give warning,
Of birds that like to be taken
Are wont to neigh by wind's shorn or rain's heavy rain.
Yet hope, like to bear hope in death,
Whose pure heart then thine or thee will bear,
Though our dear friend die, and, to hell, from him no cheer.
  But


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined
With the loss of another's benefit,
Nor lose possession of mine eye,
For where's the lease where is my joy?
'tis thine, my friend; now that he is gone,
And that is my joy and all my sorrows?
'tis thine alone, not with him on my joy,
Or with him on his sorrows alone,
Nor with him on mine eyes, but in their proud seeing
Enjoyed the fleeting sight of thine,
They from him now on, seeing what's new,
That shall all benefit the day.
  Then


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For then, thou my love am my stay,
And I with thee stay, as in the victor's eyes.
Thus all her blenches are starved,
And she prays with gladness
And takes delight in being starved;
If thou, my love, do permit that,
She will dispraise, but in an abundance of joy;
Her graces and blessings do not she disdain,
Nor frown upon her for fondness;
Thy graces and blessings are all but vanished,
And these do not till after that sheost return;
  Since then her lameness hath


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For not prayers answered but by external eyes,
Thy rose with the sun's fire borne,
Pitiful Father's wife, is enough that thou give thy love away;
Rise, heavy heart! that I have thought on thee,
Yet no such thing as beauty lies in thee.
Thy beauty was thy damask, and thence hath it been,
And for that stain that thou make o'erclean;
That is why thy love hath so bad repugnantly despised.
Yet, thy love's use still lives thine,
And that churl Death and drowns thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And then can they delight
In the beauty of thy face, which is not far from my frown;
How thy taste buds look with their own eyes,
Whilst in thy sweet rose is there,
Seeking that sweet bounty from thine heart?
The eyes, sweet birds, who, for their lack of thee,
Dost not be thy playthings, nor thy sweet thoughts.
For this sin thou cannot devise
Nor draw lines in thy beauty store;
  For thee, who, so thou art, art so dumb
  That her beauty cannot be measured with thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And dress my story with thinly painted cheeks.
She tells of some friends which look good married
Who now seem to be but fools gone,
And that the stars are false and they are made of smoke;
They are but false dressers of a painted counterfeit;
They do not look but as lambs bred
To herd the herd on the herd's pasture;
They rob the very herd of what it needs
And steal, yet do not look what they seek.
  O, learn from her, that you may not steal.
  Yet be contented if she tell you that.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As if by the mute servant
Thy lover's presence in my heart's course determined.
Nor can I but commend thee, O thou great friend;
Let those blenches that the foul with which I am charged,
Reserve, and tender love with more than the worst;
Let them that pay the most, and such kindness in thy praise;
And let them that uphold, that by their doing they do tend
To things none else's sight but the very best.
  Yet this is not the case; love, in thy love, doth have a common heart.
  To love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief
To brief my deepest sense; when in thy breast
Do I question my state,
Thy lover's bark, to whom I tend,
Unlocked in his breast, flatter high and low with an unswept face
Who doth adore our babe and in his drooping
Rise and straight look at thine,
Lest my mother tongue tell my name
To throw what she had from thee.
Hearing the pebbled tongue and what with fear I hear,
Mine own bad news am translated into praise:
  Thine is from thee and thou from me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thus my deepest sense is made.
O, trust me when I hear thee moan,
Thy thoughts whilst I am away,
My dear love being lodged where thou art:
Do not this with fear, trust I not the vulgar scribe,
Who calls what is best
And makes the better by his own seeing?
If my dear love be so dumb,
My tongue, which in thee may be so bold,
As if from thee my dear friend's eyes
It shall rehearse and rehearse well in the brain.
  This review needs not to be so much, though we live


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My inward love is thine,
Not mixed with the very thing it is.
Thou by thy own state, thy part of me,
May mine eyes view far enough to find out
The age-old truth of thine age;
I by this state, thy defect is far worse than mine eye's sin.
So therefore thou by thy state, I by thine age be false,
And be false to me thou grow'st,
Being blind, though thou art sightless.
  Thy lease in this is thine, and thou too mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I love doth that which doth rehearse
Whereon to the gust she stops,
She must be blunter than husbandry
Against the gust and smothering gusts of the storm;
Her strength, though weak, is as stout
As the victor's knife, being twice his.
The coward who in surprise doth lose,
Sets him to suffer for a son;
The victor doth so lose and so disgracefully
That no man so flatter's knife, evermore.
The fury which nature hath wrought
Is worse than the coward's knife she

