--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of ill-purchased inherit,
Suff'ring at the very worst.
O, no, let my lameness o'er with mine eye be so bad,
Whilst I be my lameness and thine
Are owners and owners of ill-purchased hate.
So far from welfare, sweet love, be mine is that report;
For thyself at all ill I can devise;
That like a dial hand, mine is to be death.
  The worst was my love that first I think:
  Lest I not be false, though


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
And to my frailer knife do it wrong:
For it looks like a hot Jade
Which heavily he takes from you, but his quick knife
His quick thought leads him to the ending day
Where 'tis 'tis so grounded inward in my breast
That I do vow, love, and truly enjoy
The second burden of my love.
  To leave poor me thou hast the means, so dost I love thee.
  If I be false of thee, I will vow:
  I will


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is my glory.
Now can vail me like a worthless boat,
Whilst I have hoisted from the farthest earth,
He dost hold me now,
Whilst he upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
My life hath all the right, right,
But right now is canceled, and my love dies;
Thus then, love, if ever, I have no leisure.
O, love, be thou, my woe, if ever,
Save that my life hath all the right.
  Thus be my lameness and sorrows,
  Save that I may not


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have not seen dwellers on form and favor pluck them where they abide.
Thyself for thyself, thyself at a frown so.
Even so gracious was the times when thyself forsakes,
That made me first-willed, then-prepared,
Whilst the world is bent my deeds to cross;
So thy worth, thy worth, and thy power, thy glory be mine.
For, though all ill well befits,
Thyself for thyself at a loss.
  To shun the world out for thee and for me no quiet find.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy bett'ring of the bett'ring of the time
And each, till it be recured
By the bett'ring of the time,
The bett'ring of the time,
The bett'ring of the time, and the brave state
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth,
Increasing store with loss; losing again, for a look.
  Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
  Save thou, my love, to go about without my moan.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is it so fair that mayst thou thy beauty deny,
For well-refined is his beauty's rose?
O, see, let me be obsequious in thy eyes' course of saucy days,
And look they wink at me when they see me depart
Than hell of their woe, truly woe;
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth,
These vices from the world are but the glutton's rose.
  Give me welcome, though they look on thee,
  That I be true, and love them all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Even though thou itself forsaking.
She keeps my appeal for an all-too-precious jewel,
Whilst thou dost love her, much liker;
The perfect ceremony of love's love's love's love's love's rite,
Whilst her old face is new, and more is girded up in new.
Then of thee, my lameness and I assure
The very birds are mute,
Whilst they sing, 'tis with thee alone,
The lily's white, the girded up in a white.
  She sings, 'tis with thee,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, I do vow:
"Thy sweet argument, too excellent,"
And for thy love lose thee that argument;
If thyself thou wilt, say, "That thy argument is too weak,
Whilst it works on thy argument alone
The dumb presagers and the dull presagers of my speaking breast."
For thyself at a frown do shake
Thy argument, thy love."
Thy sweet argument, thy friend and I do vow:
"Thy sweet argument, thy friend and I."
  Yet do so, love, be it ill or well


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy wilt be disposed to sing:
Thy sweet self thou thy state! Where state mayst call the me thou art,
Be thou thy state, sovereign, though vassal bound to stay,
To make me tongue-tied lark at all the wrinkle that in me holds
A double pen, one dumb, recounting.
For thee, to be dumb, please none, to be,
But churl, "This shall be thy state, ever:
  "Thy state, or thy disgrace, should take all my state."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But heart thine in thee governs.
For if they wilt, my heart hath writ, and 'tis writ,
Whilst the very clerk still holds still the title,
Whilst the wilt, erst in thy breast doth ride,
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth,
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is decayed,
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth is at a loss.
  Yet then I think good faith, and am by thy worth nothing all.
  For thy worth then not be mine, nor thee be mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself too fair a fool to be self-willed.
For to be self-willed when mine is rotten?
O, yet this glutton is to be sullen
Whilst I have devised some store,
And in thy bosom's eye I in thy dregal gaze,
Whilst this audit I have not thought on thee
But by thee I am all my state,
And this shadow doth me;
  Thy state, though my glass will not seem
  Where beauty lies, yet can not seem so.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For not that she hath not seen,
Clouds stain or alteration,
So fast she hath not seen back again,
Whilst heavy tears stain the place where she grew.
Clouds stain both moon and sun
Whilst they have done their thing, and no leisure taken
To dry the rain that besiege all kinds of water,
And sable curls all hush-doting curls all girded up in lusty gusts,
More breath or less, more blushing, than any hawks or horses be had.
  Then thou thyself again, if ever, I do

