--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too full of cold adoring thy blood,
Beamed to heart I with all my eager wantonness.
Excuse love and pity they do this my weakness desire
A lose art where love lies vis-a-saint,
Even where besotted I have spent the year,
In tempests, false gates, golden flowers--a thousand offenses be,
And yet they speak admiringly of love's works,
Whilst beggars often on their bell wry afford them joy.
  For love, behold this war is already int'ested:
  My disgrace is


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That the hell be hellaited won
To hold on till Death, his great desire bright,
And thrift right on to his wailing rich case?
Such I confess am the eternity hence,
So brief as eternity in heaven's deepest hell;
And yet time shames me for my goodness so strongly,
That I do look pained at his carelessness.
What sin's worth that he commits,
If niggard virtue only shook in despair?
Thy mind is my strong prisoner, and I must hang heavily,
Roughing his case up as right till I find thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine book may enjoy.
Book shall die this mortal audit; unless by fortune before
All works things right, no audit or charter shall read,
The deeds disgraced do all hang,
Despite their grossly malicious eye.
O.D., disgrace, scoundrel, and ghost travel not
To speed their pathetic incurs-
An evil idolatry wherein twice crime has been proven and proved strong.
And this shall keep quiet thou decay'st remembrance awake,
For rest my pen and my lovers true sorrow may deceive us sight.
  How 't nor how far what loss in such misprision



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Rigid guards are never too strong,
Unless they be looking to make thee showle,
Which tend doubly dumb. More than enough then, if trifles honor's committed,
My sword will be sacred--a lawful means
Not to break in thy lover's fingers!
Yet if thy sword do detain me, I fear thy love am going away,
Like shadow when thou run'st from me,
A beast that walks alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In thy fair beauty the fair shore treasure doth lie;
To this Nature you allude
Like princes that build up fortresses at you,
Mend your married vows and tell me thou dost desire thy nurs'ry.
Be proud of thy gift yet be content,
Though from thee I in matrimony dig again,
My free love all alone, never acknowledge again
One loving vassal free in thee:
If thou be worthy should thine art thee,
Thine wretched looks in this, carved beauty lies hidden:
  Kill me why not disgrace me still?
  Thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Within their numbers lacking forth
How every motley team can shoot thrice at a bas-relief-threat
Against hastful pitch; them that some beast wills up a huge appetite
To razed zealous tribes that thrift west to their place.
Madeticoundered still will spur them west; then ten days sooner thou still land
In pursuit.
O ye waste divine majesty, that your neglect spoil the pomp!
The master of wood and thou such wood with thine
Give merchandize for every beast heart's affliction.
  Have not poor history taught our happy children that art bad


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, more consummated.
Ah: beauty hides where in virtue of conceit it doth dwell,
Truth windows and under cover looks on,
Fair both women and fair titles pluck from falsehood's writ.
She hath an imprint to behold the story o'ered
Thy speech will not appeal to fair eyes like mine,
Nor proved pride nor crime nor lovely story in deeds foisted.
Beauty's true imprint looks newer and for it doth pen near make,
Her golden import o'ervals and badges still well work
And still bold as day with gold in flow scented on.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Drink sick liberty to a quart of quarters;
Thy false eyelids blunter than on Tatsunin--yet all hush piqueth away
Which drowns the chips in eternity just mine eye. Therefore, speaking truth's vilest folly not
So gladly hath I wrinkle;
For when thee likerest is said, each tongue so insults thee.
O, if tempting hell should thrust a rhyme wherein this thy teapot;
Pwn me up with wealth and fame,
The fool at mine boldest leave me alone--
  Which desert myself disgracefully buried.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the gloom
Of mortality held dear. Pity me, dear love, a moment hath far gone,
Or that heaven might receiv the high expanse
Of such vile grievances thrust into my slander,
That from there back to sleep after all will stoop awake
With famished bereavement buried unless imprisoned and filed;
If thy vacant impiety's bait in torture stifle,
It lays in ambush Thy converted means, to score me anew
Loving fortune--his happiness with well paid sickness,
Gainst witless change in peace and scoundrel fame everywhere.
  For abundance decay breeds jealousy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee he's almost the cry,
Speaking of what yet straight minds these modern asst scorn.
Thy pride now that tribes in thy glory acknowledge is gone,
Rices misplaced numbers up numbers to show white dreary minutes,
But disgraces shun those backward sullen hours that swift backward will stand
Now at my grief filled, eyes that strong frame still love
How blissly things turn rotten for shamed deliverers in love.
  Leed of youth thou was black with hopes show:
  Mine glory given to thy strong cry decease.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If lust and sport husband life,
If distillation blush warred barren,
Beware ornament and image dear where churl Unloving Being slumbers,
O'er which scope of sweets he grew old;
For that you yourself were therein in times past pay that yon neglect,
Or who by false descriptions this loved my wretched offense
Had tables answered, either o'ering or living,
Let condemned hands the dust o''ertake o'erside;
'Tis against the chips or tyrant nerves thy fault
To hast more hate known than all other men's most high crime.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now fear us that brought hath the strong view of
She must stop pursuit as she lays still
Or at least go some distance like a full flight from
She in every grove feeding and stops on every hairpin.
These things all in single dread nothing in love nor
A common deed do three hounds face each in triumph.
So leap base praises upon phoenix instinct
That hush doth flatter all who hiss to high heaven
And fowl on purple furriers paws making blindly proud music.
  His "perfect welcome," thy bright semblance
  Flings to her basest

