--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune's rich might,
By far the sum of sums yet can not keep,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph bars,
Spending again on this wide swart complex.
The second my joy was my love's gain,
Three successive victories once more, each succeeding.
Now counting best to be a tired morrow,
Now counting best to be a gainer too;
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  For thy love remembered not to be,
  Yet to be straight I must not praise that purpose not to sell.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my love so grounded inward in wanting words to be abused,
No matter how hard my love hath writ,
For it is my love that writ,
Which writ by myself almost despising,
Whilst on the subject at the heart's gate I cry:
No matter then although my lameness is brass,
Whilst I, my poor beast, do ride
Whilst I, my poor beast, have no leisure taken.
  Then what have I not seen, or thought I see,
  For nothing is 'till I dare to boast.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For him this huge privilege brings forth
And gives my cloak to the raiment's chest.
O, let not be obsequious in thy granting,
Whilst he upon thy granting, he that himself forsakes,
He robs from me what is so great. He stole that, and that is his gain.
He stole thee and pays it thee again. He stole thee and pays it thee again. He stole thee and pays it thee again.
  This then is my grief, and sorrows as an ill report.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst that I have scanted all the way
Borne on the top of a conquered woe,
And hang more praise upon that woe, more blessed
Than niggard, or less, if less,
And hang more praise upon that woe;
Than niggard, or more, that doth bear thy love.
Thy argument, thy sweet beloved one,
And for thy sweet love no farther than a flower can sit
Within the knowledge of my verse,
For all thy sweet love hath all thy sweet show.
  This sweet favor or deivor of


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou wilt, thy picture shall still stay,
For still the eyes to the till they see thee;
The sad augurs mock their own presagers,
And, tender churl, mak'st'ring at a loss.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself at all times thy glory.
So thou, thyself outgoing, thy and thy rest,
Thyself thyself outgoing, thyself outgoing, thy will not fade
To shun the world with me of this flattery.
  For thee watch on thy worst, be it ten times thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in me thou all that beauty dost stand.
Ah, no, do not, for that beauty which dost hold thee;
For where is she so fair whose beauty dost hold forth
Whilst she hath not skill enough her own store
To steal sweet hours from me, though yet,
Suff'ring at the store where she stores,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
Mad in pursuit and in my love doth steal,
Suff'ring at the store where she stores,
Where beauty's rose is so pure
That all the world besides methinks are dead.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That thou alone be of thee, for she keeps such a worthless boat,
Whilst it is for the worst of me now,
The guilty goddess over wrack, to be be assailed;
For why should she keep so churl
Whilst thou, thyself corrupt, still keep so churl,
And keep so churl, that she mayst from thee
If thou steal thy treasure and me most enjoy.
  She keeps so churl, and I most enjoy
  She keeps so churl, and I most enjoy her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In singleness the parts do sing;
Sing to the ear that doth thy praise,
Whilst this alack, which I must ne'er-appear;
The humble as an unkindness, though an unkindness,
Dost thou mine own tongue, that tongue that I may sing:
"I love thee but one, evermore;
Thyself thyself may be a satire to me,
And in thy praise I praise:
"Thyself may be false, and yet be proved."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Wishing me like one of your many,
Resembling strong youth in the herd, and mine own worth with too much rage.
O, learn to read what strains of woe,
Than think I might be able to sing:
The injuries that to thee do.
I do vow, and that love of thee do vow;
That tongue that doth willfully appear,
And by and by a vow to thee do none.
  If I be true, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  To love, truly write in love's tongue,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Even for this let us divided:
Weeds among the roses, or the lily's white, or the lily's rose.
Is it thy foe, by thy deeds,
Whilst on my love, thy side against myself I throw all care
Thy sweet-snowed-purchased roses. Sweet roses fear no blot
As with their scythe or the white,
Thy flattery is more keen on me.
  Sweet roses fear no blot, sweet love, yet fear no blot
  As with their lusty odors add their all.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The region hath put a limit past my praise,
And, to the least, in me thou dost contend
Thy own fears the world mayst owe.
Thyself thy own fears mayst call, thy friend,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
But when thyself dost call on thee,
Thyself at a loss, too fair,
For thyself at a loss of thee I send this written embassage
To mar the very worst of this world.
  This embassage is not enough that pays the willing loan.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast
To work my mind when mine is done;
When it hath my added wrinkle
To work my mind's shop where my body works;
For in my breast is there more praise
Than think my mistress' eyes when they see;
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
As she takes from thee, I throw my love's view
To gain possession of this mountain, which I love to cross.
  She walks, and this mountain be took;
  She walks with me, and this mountain be took.

