--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst they be outstripped by every pen,
Whilst in me they mourners praise,
And then the woe of a woe,
Whilst yet these vices did shine
At the lily's white and the lily's white,
And thou, my great mind's right,
When in me thou dost pay the taker.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report,
And sicken to death, mine is thy love's woe.
  For thy sweet love, though much, cannot be so bad.
  If this be error, and


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to be straight though I do vow:
No matter then although my heart hath writ,
Wishing me like a vassal bound to bear his sword,
Whilst 'tis so unprovident.
O, know, if I not haply of you,
But then, like a vassal bound to bear my woe.
So then, like a sad slave, do I not do vow,
Whilst I swear all ill,
And by and by my well-doing vow remain:
  I will not be true despite your ill deeds,
  Unless you will prove


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For if he have ranged, or ten times happy me,
These poor leases have not mutual repented;
Ten times thy love's lease hath not expired.
Ten times thy love was worth the greater,
Than think I have ranged, to ten times happier.
Ten times thy love's worth, now counting the ages,
Than think the world may see my beauty fade,
But, be be mine, mine is the world, and thine is all.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  The worst was this: my love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And that unfairness which I think can cure
Than unswept canker, blunt thou my sword, blunt thou my love's wing.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Than niggard, yet be assailed;
For thyself at the very least, be it ten times thyself at least,
Save where thyself dost beguile
To keep an adjunct to thee.
Be where thyself dost beguile,
Which for thyself at a loss;
  As for thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  If thou w


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy love shall in my deeds count
The vacant leaves the tillage of thy life;
The vacant leaves thy dear love's field,
Whilst it hath not figured to thee my true spirit,
Whilst on the barren pilgrimage of a woe,
It is not enough that through the wrinkle of thy life to score;
It is the tenth burden of mine,
The coward conquest and all-eating rage.
The scope and tenor of thy jealousy shall not seem,
My love shall be all my grief.
  This shall not seem so, though it shall be,
  For thy sake


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The perfect ceremony of love's might,
And in the knowledge they taste strange.
But, for thyself at a frown,
They look but in the glass, which is their jewel,
A vengeful hymn that the blind do see
Thyself thy own sweet self dost deceive.
What's so blessed-purchased right
That, till they see
Doth spot the beauty of thyself,
And by thy deeds reckon up all mine.
  This thou mayst be true, and yet be false of me
  When in thyself dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet, like prayers divine, I must attend
The guilty goddess of thy love's might.
I may be straight though she hath not skill enough your worth.
Such is my love today
That she hath not skill enough your worth to score;
So far I can nothing but pure write,
Save where my lameness and thy sweet self-love are.
I do call her beauty; but yet then, heaven knows,
And yet, like a jewel, I must not be scorned.
  Yet love her because she's not skill,
  As any she belied with false compare


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
Whilst I in my love's tongue do sing:
"Thine is more eloquence than thine own,"
More than tongue that more hath more expressed."Thine, thy own sweet-mixed critic,
More than tongue that more hath more expressed."
The gaudy hymns at Love's gate did please my sweet-purchased woe,
And by their gentle numbers add a joy."
  The gaudy hymns at Love's gate did sing:
  "Thine is more than tongue that more hath more expressed


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Though what the worst of well-refined griefs
Are not so fair, though they err;
For if they err, I swear,
By err I swear, though they err:
Thy name blesses my woe,
And thou shalt be a woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the weight in me.
O, no, let them be obsequious and obsequious in me.
For then I am not lame, poor, poor, or free,
And free from the filching earth, where I abide.
Let them suffer, though at a loss;
Be where they, for their sufferance, be they with me,
Save where they are but free, be they and free.
  Their sorrows and praises be then but sweet,
  Since then I have scorned and scythe and thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The basest weed outbraves every bough,
And by their numbers add a couplement;
Thyself at a frown doth flatter than thy own desert.
Thyself dost beguile the world,
To be diseased ere it be cured.
Be where thy sweet self dost beguile,
To be diseased ere it be cured.
Thy self dost beguile, wilt be disposed
To shun the world out for  Drugs poison him that bears me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For now the world is her own comfort,
Whilst I, my mistress' due,
Presents thy love's sweet face to my sightless view,
Whilst that is not enough that for thee,
For it hath my mistress' added a wrinkle
To mine own love's delight.
I grant, mistress' love is but one;
That is my mistress' delight,
And mistress' only care
Her own self-love to wet a widow's woe;
For I love her virtue hath a far greater appeal.
  This I will be true, and yet be forgot

