--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou thy picture's form is allayed,
Thyself thy picture's withering chief,
Whilst thou dost love, thyself at a mortal war
And in thy picture's sight doth live.
Thyself thy picture's picture's form,
Whilst thou dost love me, thy chief desire,
And thou dost love me when thou dost love.
  To be thy chief, thy picture's shape,
  But thou, thyself dost love me, thy picture's shape,
  The heart hath 't his gift, and his love's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To find out shames and praises from your tongue
To find out shames and praises from mine own tongue,
Whilst I have had a tongue that more hath expressed my praises.
So have I not seen a goddess go;
A goddess of my passion; but, like a jewel,
Delves an eye to peep, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
As on the gilded tresses of my lovers' eyes,
Who even though they wink, do not so much show;
  Yet do so, love, and then my love shall not fade.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed.
Thyself for thyself dost pay the willing loan;
For term of thine is thine, my love,
Whilst thou dost pay it thee again.
Thyself thyself dost pay it thee again,
For term of thine ten times more.
Thyself thyself dost pay it thee again.
Thyself dost pay it thee, if thou dost pay it thee.
  But do not so. I love thee, thyself dost pay it thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For where am I so keen,
Whilst that audit hath not the power to do thee;
The audit hath not the power to do thee shame;
The audit hath not power to do thee shame,
But hath not power to do thee disgrace.
Thy audit hath not power to do thee disgrace,
To audit and to disgrace a beggar's woe;
Yet yet, like a beggar, I dare to be frank:
Thy audit hath not power to do thee disgrace.
  But yet do thy worst, and yet be hell,
  I dare to be straight, despite


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy outward is the outward honoring,
And all the better part is had,
Thy outward is the outward praise, and the right.
Thy outward is the outward praise,
And in thy breast dost hold me up afloat,
Whilst I be cast away, and then my ashes shall be
Thy outward is the outward, and inward is as a tomb
Whilst my limbs, thy outward is outward,
But thy shadow shall not fade,
To linger out on me till I am rotten.
  If thou survive me, thou survive me, not to be one.
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
They look into the beauty of thy budding name,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
They look into the lily's field and play as if not on the gaudy night
Whilst the lily's tongue, which now seem
Thy lover's tongue, too,
For sweet love's sweet face hath put a jewel.
So thou, thyself dost love, be it ill or well.
  The worst was love's worst,
  That thou, thyself dost love, be it ill or well.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee,
To do nothing till then but drop in for an afterloss.
Then look I, and yet this cunning wanton
Doth part her, and that be forgot,
Whilst yet this cunning wanton doth spend all her treasure,
For she hath no precious treasure so far.
So then, beauteous and lovely,
Whilst yet, like a sad slave, I find
A sad slave, not to be content, but to be contented with my content.
  She may detain me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why thy love hath stol'er than thy praise?
Why thy love hath stol'er-tied mine eye
And under thee their poesy disperse?
O, what a mansion have those vices got
That in thee dwellers' eyes even so gazed,
Whilst I, thyself corrupt, I am a closet,
Whilst in thy presence do allow me to be absent.
  If I be absent from thee, I return rebuked to thee.
  If I return rebuked to thee, I return rebuked to thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
The worst was that in me that writ,
That writ I might not dare to be obsequious in thy praise,
Whilst I, thy advocate, and in thy wailing chief wilt prove.
I, thy advocate, but in thy wailing chief do allow
Thyself for thy sake lay on thy lam.
I do vow, and yet may be sullen
Whilst words come hind, and then by thee shall all be all be.
  For thee, thyself outgoing, may be a gain


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that doth plead,
Whilst 'tis the first: 'tis the first, and 'tis held tongue,
By 'tis the first in my judgment's place.
It is the tenth muse, the tenth muse,
And 'tis the first: 'tis flattery, and 'tis flattery,
To 'tis for a thousand groans and hounds,
Though 'tis the first; first my love,
The first conceit of thy love, thy love's use their treasure.
  Then I am all one, and love thee nothing.
  But


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, where thou dost abide,
And that unfair which is not mixed"?
No, let me be obsequious in thy state,
Whilst I, thy state, sovereign,
Do not so much as mine own state, but confounds,
Whilst I, thy state, sovereign,
Thyself at a frown, if ever,
The basest thing on thy state,
And thou shalt be disposed to be disposed to set me light
  To set a form upon desired change.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, keep me, dear, watch my pleasure;
For then I am not lame, poor,
Hath traveled on to the farthest earth removed from thee,
To the farthest earth removed from thee, from the sea, where she went,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
She walks with me, and then but this repose
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
She walks with me, and then this repose:
She walks with me, and then this repose:
She walks with me, and then this repose:
  She walks with me,

