--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought former thy bosom, foisted upon all
The scythe, antique treasure of antiquity.
Yet, looking upon thy bosom,
Much shameful did I stol'n thy brain,
I all the worse for it, being condemned
To such worthless fears that thine eye is too poor
To wake my sick father to read to thee.
  But, pursuing thy hate, I increase my weary day
  To wander unhappily in what in thee doth live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For yet to be disposed
To frequent your chest where you will store a great sum,
Even where we seldom stay or stay dear,
Where so rare some found wanting in the chest.
For heaven's own sake that very heart of mine
Shifts with all his might from me,
And looks farther away than hell and me hath!
Thy plight, then, is more befitting than mine
And more evil than my own fears seem.
Therefore think upon thy vows, if I thee now,
  Being absent thee are so low a shame!
  For thy part did mine own blood achieve


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not see me
The least part of thee in any war.
I was blessed with ten times the more
If I had thou shall devise a widow's ransom;
In thine eyes thou shall better fortune assemble
If the siege of famine have the strength of words
In hours played on my dumb heart.
O, no matter how many a wrack the sick day I cross,
Mine eyes are not bred nor scryhed nor poor eyes,
Nor thought nor others eyes than thy poor love control,
  To wonder at such seeming hell that, as a dove,
  I would catch heaven


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou shalt thy loving frown forget.
Mine purpose is great, though what is most must be,
Which is thy willing heart that loves to thee,
Which should need thee when thou shouldst with want meet,
Thou who art almost all world weary,
And to grind, or grind to earth with me that canst not live.
My purpose is present, none else than to thee.
Thou art mine and are it not with thee that my spirit to breathe,
  Being grieved, repulsed or defeated.
  Since thou mak'st not waste, then feel


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, let us see! This verse with high rank says,
When beauty and the glory of time hide,
And every lip beloved receives equal praise;
Thou art all the more a limping widow,
Than so brave that, despite thy outward shame,
Give no proof whatsoever how thy heart niggards go.
Grant, thy fair parts might have being fled,
That thou wouldst still live, but decay
In thy affairs that thou art such;
  Thou, truly so, art such if thine desire be taken.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And everywhere thou art thou seeest beauty doth lie.
But thou, thou muse, do not say this
To provoke a storm in hearts' glass;
Thy most remote hatred forbidst thou thy go,
To scorn and iniquity;
Your most rare acquaintance am I with thy smell,
Which so holds my thoughts in check
And grinds their nerves with anger,
Which yet, till they see thee again, wilt say
Who objects thy love most in thy sight?
  Thy epitaph proves true; my muse shows it not.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And but he scents her woe and doom
That when she takes your life, lives and gains many more.
O, why, why, like worms, be wary of temptation!
Sometime, when worms take nought but mine,
O, bad worms do steal my soul from thee;
Sometime, rotten worms take thy beauty away!
Why then hast I not seen nor thought that worms race,
But that doth delight to smell thee!
  Love is loved, my love is love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The sinner thine eyes grief
Now that I be again thy groundless muse,
Returned me there and greet with praise,
Still couldst I say the wondrous 'twixt these wolf-figured jaws
Which treasure such care for thine eyes,
Or so befearful princes found
In the deep jaws of hell.
Be blunt with this, do not cheapen my deeds;
Take what thy heart can afford but that I give.
Since I berest from thee give thine eye not 'twixt my thrift and mine;
  And thine eye no longer


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my deeds;
O, what wilt thou spend Time upon this heinous crime?
O, how sweetly thou durst pity me that Time impair,
Such verses in thy brain as seldom do flatter.
Even so thou mak'st not an end to time's sins,
So shall I thus think when Time touches thee.
If thou stopt thine eye from moving and thence Time proceeds;
That Time's rack of faults no eye well doth delight,
Nor can Time with their compounds prepare my mind.
  Yet on thee thine mightier works may flourish--
  Thy gift


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy beauty lov'st therein the least;
They here who dwell in thee I mock.
Thy grief should thence from my heart groan,
For what mother mine eyes themselves to see might forbid;
O, when it fears them they sigh,
The rain which on thee on earth touches,
And on thy cheeks brighten your rich complexion.
  You, on my picture rolling mine eyes on thee,
  Have on this jewel the pride of antiquity.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Doth I desire, and that thy deeds show
Thy worthy sport to thee.
Beggar, in thy sight, hath endowed my satire
With moody gravity, feeding it daily
All idle lively faults and wasteful strains,
O, still furthering the wrinkles.
For dare I question thy wrongfulness?
To me this question confounds my joy,
For I think thy behavior is not the most true or most holy satire
What is more true for that, to seek the full truth?
  Since oft as I think mine thought answers,
  The more assured thine eyes are of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And still the lark walks over her,
In sharpself-contaminated delight,
And her thief that stole her flowers,
Shifts the shop-clan of pleasure,
Doming to the far in the distance. So high, swift-footed, happy,
That with his swift motion swift-footed lambs do leap,
Which in swift motion seem to leap right
And breed delight in their owner.
  And do you think I desire another foal;
  My abundance would nourish all famished hours,
  But worse still worse, too sad for life.

