--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill
The glassed roses and dainty pins of my youth;
These weeds weed the fountains with beetle blood,
These ye have to purposed beauties,
So that by the day that thou see'st thy beauty fade.
Yet for this I esteem thy liveliness,
Which lack not doth my esteem approve
Nor mine eye's to sight much hate.
  But therefore thou better or mine eye doth absurd dash
  To seek thine eye for a sake of that pleasure.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To know I love you more than I do joy
With vassal love that'll ransom my sins'
Against thy sovereign grief?
No, not what I justly call torture.
But knowing myself so malignant,
And hate checked that I with fear prove
Against thee, I do tend to my sorrow here,
And weep for thy loss
Not knowing thy love so graciously ritually besiege.
  Yet such am my thoughts as thou art mine,
  That impiety cannot wane me so light.
  I would thought thou art mine beleaguer.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might pay the interest
Which in thy favor should I dare matter.
Since hence the bower that shook may my heart spend
Since did not throw kind to my cause but that him menaces would
So sweetly undisturbed, that thou for aught own
Ribes upon me, fearing my sin,
Resembling that thou dost gladly offend his might;
No soul, now nor ever, rent nor part mine,
But in heaven that chide their scythe and ate thy knife.
  The tables have been kindly made of stone and their lengths old,
  And


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
More than enough bondis am I to mine own control,
More than enough thou that I shame,
More than enough thou that constant stol'n,
Than too high the minded skill with which I fine.
Hearing that she will return, thou whether in love or hate shall excuse,
Whose more and faster this vexing issue be.
Make no such plea for thee, methinks I have got thee,
Nor look upon thy cry that calls thee base,
  Not knowing that mine am but such a straight line that poor day is.
  Pity me then even that I


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou mine own worst sin, hence thee hang'st to receive
The blame of thine, for all men's wrongs;
All men's defects too, and I am all that thou dost annoy,
Attending thine sun hush-tackling to bail thy body out.
I adore thou, even so as the rich jewel
Who spheres all frailties in thy decrepit womb.
O, pity no ornament shall ever well stand
But that thou shouldst, it being my former self,
My image the chief seal of thy love.
  Thy sweet burn that is


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, walk and sit;
They know but thy frown and thy beauty's pleasing shape,
Although thou this obsequious brain see thou art love.
Called beauty's render not in date,
But beauty's soulless glass doth debase
Without counting thy judgment on eyes that see,
Speaking of objects of beauty more distantly than thy time,
Robbing things that look in thy like-straw of time's wide world.
O, and thou muse send'st away, that the Earth may prosper:
While thou art barren mock, niggard muse!
  O, but wond


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, when measured by thy very sun.
For for all needs of time my love's grief is brief;
Yet this briefity to let things speak under heavy influence
Hast thou thy sweet breast's spring, methinks when thou no wind.
For thou well knows my joy; no shape shall control me this cold
Than what proves no true laws can uphold.
Neither oppression nor fortune nor my worth know
But that I by thy review have delved way out of scope.
  Three most lovely trophies do hold witness to thy riches


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And what stronger will infection with thine sickle purge
Than the waves that wrack the womb before?
Bart thou, my wife, whose infection thine frame shapes
To back my infection and so purge me of substance!
Dost thou cast poison upon thy beauty,
To steal all thy lovely color from thy life,
Despot and poison my veins' perfumes with thy poison?
Dost heaven forbid have I wish taint on thee
If thy offices were more filled with silence and woe!
Thou art an tyrants razed house, and thine ghastly waste


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief.
Admit not that I was not deceived time and again,
Since my lovely ungodly being three hundred times more lovely
Than the sedate look which on some surfeit alters,
Proving thy waste by cold penance.
Such use therefore in my heart
That Time for my sake can learn more poor grief,
Than mine own losses love and mine own guilt demonstrate.
  My soul for not warning answer doth me
  From what truth lies in thy vulgar name.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which thoughts with thee this self-loving find.
Alas, though thou pen sweet truth, yet never mine,
Hapan I to thee bases an endless succession.
Nay, though my soul have any grief at thy chronicle,
My love wastes those parts out of time
Which bring thee here and here there with so petty a grief;
Thy light's temptation outscores thy dumb sight,
And then worms my thought by thinking petty faults whereof.
Thou art so spiteful, much more so than most a thousand worms,
Whose clear knowledge no braineth blind in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For mine own frailties are suffered but oft;
Thy own oppression so mixed with mine pen doth lie,
To pardon thy well which no grievances filled,
Nor be blamed but why thy dear virtue did erst err.
Such love of thy good did lie buried
Thy days famous thus, for thy love hath rosy lips endured,
Pursuing when thine grievances vanished:
Nativity with all his fair disposed abused thee.
Yet since thou couldst mock thine for my sin,
The cross thus I may be stained,
Die with thee tyrannically.
  Then


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For Explosive fire hath sweeted to profane worms
Within the swarming frame of her breast,
Hot glass thorns impassive in her fresh brood.
Since it this lovely accident made the brave war,
Gavrawath is that fierce beast that bars his life by bars,
Whose fury, drunk warding off sheet draw,
Die for his sake; that world stinks in gold,
And vice-versa th' burly odor becomes ghastly.
  For war, cheap shame and silence he set these poor tribes
  To pour their lassitude; that anger

