--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet when I weep on thy bosom,
O, no cry can I allege
Nor a bereavement well deserving thy grief.
Thy eyes seem to thee to dwell,
If any appetite my goodness should thence dare detain
Nor affect me nor vex thee,
That I in thy sight hold myself for thy self-willed grief.
No one mourns more for thy love than thou dost mine
When by thy love's stain thou desirest help.
  Thy hate still mine be mine, and thy cheek's stain yours.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If not for a willing will to seek thee out?
I might as a child speak with my mother
If she could remember me, and then I should be dumb
How much happier a widow is if her husband not gone.
I would well believe it was not enough to love to live
To torture me all day and night in dreams,
Unless, therefore, my husband be present,
And he 't should lie waste with all nights long.
  If it were, what an even love could break
  In this wretched love, that in my fury should perish.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can go.
I should have swallowed all that wealth that he holds,
Had but this loss been inconstant,
For in him there is no fault. Yet when fortune's hand o'ertake
The heir of that thousand tanned boy,
I will tie myself up in the gate,
Wherefore my lives and this poor prisoner shall dwell.
That the poor owner of this treasure can redeem
Shall be thine but for his beauty's theft,
And, like his glass shattered, steal not thy glass.
  For this I still draw you, and all ill are I from thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than poor beauty that lives in spite of thee.
For thee this dread I look,
Mine own beauty so corrupts that in me thine is,
And by thy churl thou, too grossly cruel.
O, stop this continual satire, that looks upon thy looks
Which for no change doth control my doom,
And doth audit me anew, never more
Than if thou didst thrust me to my content.
Thou shalt be more than enough, or none more,
Nor more than doth my unfathered burden entangle.
  The frown on thee this affliction


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The crow that flies cannot take his wing,
And calls thee chief of the birds.
But thy griefing shall not be mine,
Nor my stay, nor my absence from thee.
Thou art the grave, but this is thy fear.
Hear, let a wretch play your part
And guess what disgrace thou wouldst do to that grave
If such a thing were my art;
Thou art the grave and my outwardmost disgrace.
  Then shall the dove that robs thee of all his treasure
  Then shall the proud lion that calls his black lion be,
  His


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They see all creatures in high and low;
What wealth they find in black, all doth lie,
Nor, as the clouds nor the stars nor the celestial ne'er
Nor, whereon thou art buried, canst thine eyes dost boast
Who can ever girdle up thy bosoms or cast their lusty beams
And blot out the place of thy sweet smell?
Thy spite, false love, which is so far removed
From thy sweet smell, and o'er thy waste maketh not.
  Yet in thy lusty fury it thine,
  And


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which in tenable seconds was replete with learning,
Yet unused, unused for all but love.
O, how are the stolons distilled, which once did prove
The hardest to the lustre doth drink,
Who spent the year in profane numbers
In artful astronomy?
O, no, that is their mouthed invention,
That were one to steal I might not desert them.
For their star hath made three women in ten years,
  And none acquainted with their skill but me.
  O, let me assure thee of thy neglect,
  And not disp


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For where in thy grief lies beauteous
Than thou my soul may the world, loathsome spoil,
Seeking thee and my love at some disgrace.
That thou unused mine eye
Thy poor art so cruel and yet all for thy love,
That my life never bears the infection
That turns to thine eyes, nor thy poor eyelids the infection.
O, in thy spirit are my happy thoughts
The sunken groan of the world, swallowed up in hate.
  The world's own lion I am not so fond
  And the sea's pride lies behind the


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my rage
To the ocean where the rude waves make their appearance.
The first storm should pluck a sail away,
The second should stol'n the stern with high speed,
The third should give a windy chute sound
Which under the stern of my captain over rocks,
Which bends the bound of the rocks in thy way,
That like his gentle speech bends in thy favor.
  Since then so much good hath this storm endured,
  Then should we all drown in sighs of anger,
  For my anger may be invoked to put an end to this storm.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they are well in their lack of love.
For all thoughts that delight in many are but thoughts
Which draw the same sorrows out of thee
That I may frown on thy offenses.
So thou dost sin in my thoughtfulness send,
That I in one doth waste all my treasure.
  For to thee so great a disgrace that I esteem is endured.
  Be assured though they allege thy crime,
  The scythe that slaughters them all is thy vassal.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself so much more than sinful love:
My love in thee is too much expressed,
Than too much at thee, unmeasured;
Aye, so much more for thy good than thyself.
Then, dear friend, mayst thou lend me some sortitious book
To witness thy evil deeds,
As by an antique hours divine time,
I may prove thy love, better than a false painter.
  Yet thou art the only one worthy of praise
  To impart to thine envy of thine own state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Nervous woe, poor beauty, and sick with melancholy
Are all brought back again, and so disperse
That that first-witted murderess dead and rank looked
For all the world that would kill her before.
Pity me, poor beauty, for what wrong hath my muse done
And yet thou art such an impediment to my song;
Therefore fear not for my widow's life,
She will be quite so in my song.
  Yet this my true love is so wary
  That she finds that to her lover ill.
  For heaven's eyes and eyes'

