--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my breast thou mock'st my beauty,
For why do I not blushing with my thoughts,
When the sun hath his course on my brow?
O, why do I not frown on thy beauty's keen,
Nor on thy rude and vulgar manners?
O, not a wink, methinks, but the outward light
Admit that thou art in truth the sun,
And the mountain tops my love's face doth boast;
  If thou shouldst love me again I will mend that crime.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For when my friend's heart thorns,
O'er whom my enemies slander,
My friend's eyes burn with grief,
Who since my friend's eyes have confounded,
And my friend's eyes with my rage;
O, what a change of heart!
O, why, none at all, for that love that grew old!
O, why, that love that I love,
Hath buried with all this treasure,
And I mourn on him that fled to my side!
  But when my friend's eyes on me return,
  The sight of that love's dead eyes


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may look upon thee.
O, then, what should I do, wherefore should I stay?
My fate, which is the care of a widow,
Is boundless and bloody,
Which this war with thee lays waste,
Which thereby shall be a spoil to thee.
O, that my grief did not so much stay
When thou wilt leave me, for thou art mine!
  If I stay and stay, that thou forfeit
  By having this loss forfeit endured!
  Thou hast my fortune and thyself thy doom.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to thy good fortune's sake thou dost stay
And hold office for a couple of winters longer.
Thy health is thy best defense,
And thou know'st all the laws that gird the earth.
O, love, think of me as I see thee travel,
Which leaves no time to sleep,
So that my fresh rose, yellow in hue,
Supposes no control; yet hath a spirit of his own.
  My love, as I see thee travel,
  Wreep not to bed, for love's sweet love knows thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art in their thoughts, whose laws are they to read,
Which are laws for heaven's workings,
That make it true that thou art in their offices.
For I am the heaven's gate, and thou, thyself, mayst be
When they make thee there proud of my sight.
O, thou art in their mind's ear, when they see thee.
O, tell them my name is Ere thou come,
And they see thou not, that thou art in their thoughts.
  Or, thyself, thou are the gate to their sight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their spheres thou dost find
Thy sight the truth, the wondrous jewel of thine eye.
For mine own seeing thou art the first to behold
And the first to perceive thy true self,
Whose well-tuned field thy wits will cover
To show the wondrous workings of thy mind.
O, be not deceived, thou art my sight,
And my thought thou art the first to perceive
Thy sight, thy self to thy purpose.
  To thee I may be proof, and thou wilt be the first to approve.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Dulling all high hopes to public disgrace.
For such was the case in the summer of '03,
When I first married, though my love's outward dress be masked,
When I first ne'er-looked to the world,
Beauty's heavenly face on my cheek,
Beauty's cross of brass stretched on her brow;
She who as the bravest warrior doth march
Will dispraise me for my refutation.
  She that nursed my love's war is no better remembered than
  Where I was born.
  No greater disgrace, that no more of


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Haply I should review thee to increase,
Thine eye thy sweet and virtuous heart;
Or, if it be so, give thyself account
Of defects I might find in thy nature,
For thy art thou mine, thy pen hath my vassal's might.
Yet this I, knowing thy poor love, do wonder,
That thou mayst in thy goodness so lov'st me;
I need not be so bold, for if thou wouldst betray me,
Thy sweet love alone can be my pride,
  Which, if thou shouldst betray me, it is thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How much I love to thee.
Now, fearing to my inward grief,
My sorrows will not be enough to send my heart
To the woe where thou art most at fault.
My right, which is the most my defect,
Is not so much in thought but by the action of thy heart.
Thy mind may be bent, but thou art such
As to my neglect to thee,
That it doth desire to correct me.
  Thus will my proud husbandry grow
  Where thou art so cruel to blame,
  Not knowing thy nature, not knowing thy affections


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that all tongues call love,
Which in me my heart calls praise.
O, do not look at that whom thy spirit hath termed love.
As for mine eyes, that 'twixt thee and my heart
Are at war with each other,
Although I breathe the same when both breathe.
O, if that be not a scandal, then this is not truth:
  For behold, when I feel thee frowning on me,
  Thou art mine, mine, and their war.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And compare thy barren state with thy own sweet love.
Thou, my love, dost by a zealous transgression
Have forsaken thy sweet love, my sweet love, thy honor.
Thou art so as willing to hurt,
To give offense to thy sweet love, to overturn thy virtue.
If thou wilt deny this amiss,
Thy self thee now, as thou be'st then is.
  To the storm that is not thou hast grown ill is thy woe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
For not a jewel hath such power to dull the fury.
But how, then, can any man, when he knows his treasure,
Doth so perjured lose his wits,
And with all his strength his slain lover's jewels seem,
Or wrack their lustre, and burn their lives in filching fire?
O, let not jealousy lie, for love and beauty are in blood.
Nor let jealousy deceive the heart
Nor false lovers maintain their high vows;
Nor should they live like lovers of lovers slain.
  But if they live like lovers, be it not said,

