--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face masked with wrinkles and wrinkles of wrinkles.
Yet thou art my love, and, being masked,
Thy face masked with wrinkles, thy face masked with wrinkles.
For thou art my beauty's face, and I in love's shadow
Thy beauty's wrinkles masked with wrinkles.
O, how, in thy beauty's shadow,
My face with wrinkles masked with wrinkles,
My face with wrinkles masked with wrinkles,
My face with wrinkles masked with wrinkles!
  Then, in thy beauty's shadow,
  My face with wrinkles masked with wrinkles,
  My face with wrinkles masked


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I will be my friend again,
And that friend again will bear me still,
If not with a kind of grief.
For to torture me with that heart is to think the world wrong,
And I am so bent on becoming the world's worst wretch.
I will not be the first to be an advocate,
For I am an advocate's advocate,
And yet, for my part, I do not think that I am so much worse.
  But, being an advocate, I do think I am much worse.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might live.
For, for thy sake, I'll be a miser
And lose all my wealth, and all my pleasure,
And all my dear love's love's love's pleasure forfeit,
And all my dear love's love's pleasure forfeit,
And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
  And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
  And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
  And all my dear love's pleasure forfeit,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou art so far from my loving care,
That I, having found thee, will not detain me,
Nor will I do ill to be absent,
Nor will I detain thee in thy bosom
When I shall see thee in thy breast,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,
Or in thy brain's workings,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art thy true self, thou art thy true self,
And, being deceived by thyself, will be put
In my way of concealing thy true self,
And, being deceived, will be buried
In the world's eye, where thou art buried.
O, what a shame! Thy true self is so much more bright
Than that of my soul that thou dost deceive.
Thou art thy false self, thy true self,
And my true self is so much better than that thou art.
  Thy beauty dost deceive, thy beauty dost deceive.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost behold a heaven where thou art.
But thou know'st that thou art not blind,
For thou art blind by nature's laws,
And thou art, in thine own self-contradictory eye,
Serving no purpose but that which thou art.
Thou art the wits'st thou art, and they are the wits
Of their wills that do their bidding.
If thou art so, they will not scorn thee,
For they know thou art the wits'st.
  But they, being in their own thoughts, know not thy beauty


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, though I am not acquainted with her,
I suspect she is a true woman,
Which, though I am not acquainted with her,
My love's name is so well known
That she might not so much as say
That I am false as to say that she is.
But that she is so well known,
Which by her beauty I know nothing,
  And that, though I be false, I am a true woman.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art the first to blame, and I am the second,
With thy odor and thy odor's sweet smell.
O, my love! my love is more strong than thy odor!
Thou art the first, and I the second,
With thy odor and thy odor's sweet smell.
O, my love! thou art the first, and I the second,
  With thy odor and thy odor's sweet smell.
  O, my love! thou art the first, and I the second,
  With thy odor and thy odor's sweet smell.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a grief as mine own heart would weep
Upon the loss of a loved one.
For thou, my love, will be my sole advocate
Against my ill-doing tongue,
And my argument against thy love's ill-doing will be
My most dear love's argument,
And the truth of my argument shall prove
Thy love's truth, and my argument's truth
Thy love's truth shall prove false,
  And thy argument's truth shall prove true.
  For thy truth is thine, and thy argument's truth
  To prove false thy love's truth must be false


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that hate me with their hate are
All in love with thee.
Therefore I love thee so much that thou shouldst be my doom,
And my love so much that thou shouldst be my disgrace.
O, what an unkindness! If, like a bad mother, thou shouldst be my son,
Thy love should be so grossly abused that my love's strength
Were drained from thee, and thou art my child.
  For thou art my child, and this I love most dearly.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, to thy love, is most dear.
For thou, my love, is the most dear of all,
Which, to thy love, is most dear,
Which, to thy love, is most dear,
Which, to thy love, is most dear.
  For thy love is the most precious jewel,
  And thou, my love, is the most dear of all.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With swift speed to the farthest farthest place.
Then I, though my love's tongue be mute,
Speak of your beauty, and of your swiftness;
And yet, like a raven, I for a moment behold
Your beauty so rare, so rare
That in it the world may see it,
And that all the world may see it,
That in it beauty and all things so rare
Are at once eclipsed and eclipsed.
  But that beauty, though so rare,
  Makes it so rare that I in all my thoughts
  Look upon you alone.

