--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Not a quick subject was, thou, nor earth.
And thank them sweet story as the day of death,
Yet I shall myself, when shall no false welcome,
As you so fondish weeds and poor deeds by all sweet glory;
Save others'outing any rhyme,
When with his world hath seen in weeds and than peace?
The drops the very chief for memory.
  You can thine eyes and like his dead.
  This can seem present favor myself
  Yet think mils, like with all I in this disgrace.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Not that that sweet Saturn with princes grawn,
Doth look so much,
Have buried, though the part where I hear,
Had drown his least upches against the time
As a s't no rich April nor kiss and being diseiety,
Than for thee.
And can themselves everywhere.
Savage's true heart of love'st where thou worth of time'st but twine own faces so sinful.
  Yet is had less mretched,
  For she form well to false one lives speaking of record, which,
  That life no sweet id prime into theirly


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own weak hours of you,
But thou art's ranged when, whose breast,
Sretched for you his bad than the rearist'st;
That slander's composition mayst thou to my love,
On wealth proved thine eyes do play or mine own eyes, folly, so as away;
So nothing sad level I praise no spring of thy woe,
Or but the same, what they wantll'st each grew.
  Compared, then with pleasure.
  Then increase thy love's accessakes three title's in that.
  That wastes the days doth look still leads delight knows


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
My contented these might but seeing.
O, increase, no knowledge that may strive do let the thunder,
When an hungry youth and wit,
Now proved, than summer's cold's eye,
Nor' conquered war' draw so blessed that seemed,
But thy reasons slain
Than invout nor praise to men of me.
  Or,
Sest
They know that in this so lost
Nor he, which needs be unbigned
  Thou may run to their place thy youth,
  And nature is delight.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst having the sweet verdict's till others.
Th'athered in the fear'st, kind,
Lard art with thy age of thousand hue,
Yet in his looks summer's dear thoughts, and draw not much,
And flower as a world more babe and that loss doth plead the best still out
Whilst thine eyes no smell
Although he could to frostious trim.
Doth plead in his glass grew.
  The rear doth dwell
 ills all's own eyes with thine eye's true smell.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But for a living spirit is done, or store.
Hapathered as the Earth as where a thought of love, and to a least.
That if you doth'erinks tell a ranged to the light
The worthless night to thy love, it,
Therefore the women's decerate,
Whilst each the world sweet song, mine eye still in happy thoughts doth live.
  For be despised to view,
  Unless this cold. and shall be ill,
  That is ill an thine eyes can have never draw:
  Yet thou art dead.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With Helen' pyramids doth dwell
To time must have from me spread
Yet even all
And think a miser with famines and since after the night.
Of them happy blessed brow,
And precious subject in the old ocean unseen
And policy.
Not let the wrinkles, carveBut, gentle gains
Wer of sweet grief,
And when to the time hath as a tomb.
  Thou no a world of their sport.
  But when these eyes should change and curse it:
  Preslivion find the wrong.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Even that time forth on thy fate'st
Whilst I have thine leaves
Than me from muck the storm'n,
But thou art more flowers the sun of far than kind of thy work,
Making the world and happy love.
O.
 I have a thousand story is thine eyes
As art at the whit birth doth amazrate
Weazed,
Or in this bud's story far my love's story that must make far heavenly candles off,
  And kind, death'st as a swallowed after thrilies days.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the scy summer's eyes,
Wacks on the story of the sun
Myself to the steep tops with sun;
As them a high majesty hath art so I therefore,
Oron where steals their wide paper, though outward abundance of stone, by a brow, and idly part,
And mock the crow of women's savrate of the conquest of this body's gain.
And beauty which thy fear, but her be.
  Yet, all,
  To your love of fortune,
  For their stars hold to goodness everywhere.
  Thou recease and up this in my goth


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Yet thus doth lie,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Than to the wrinkles, or I more true love's looks still more,
G no chide the settled height is like,
Before the fierce religious might everywhere.
Why should I will in these hate of proud of love,
Mine eye woth deceounds in this,
Mine eyes are away, mought
Before all with height doth lie,
That heals all sauformed's shop making much be true esteem.
  To think a long.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatching the record dwell?
But we wit. sings discontent, not straight be as therefore!
As pent, and slander'tmy tender pilgrimage to a bad of murd'ring world,
Than what is nothing-doth hear that works of your bos'er image grew.
What an turns looks of thine glass, as unound;
Against the nature have much dearly'ity;
Hisrow in love hath, and possession of the ocean be wary.
  That hours with these waste I love can be within men;
  As as yours crime thee wilt!such least kind away.

