--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So that, having climbed the mountain and died,
My veins full with blood; their moiety and gracious grace
Divert the plagues of winter's day,
But, unbless mine, I with winter's plague
Haply go about with the blenching cold,
Resembling old men in sourestial
Pluck the bloody cold out of his wrack,
Exceeded by a winter's rosy face,
And, at the farthest from my sight,
Thy blenching infection should be
And, like a dead lamb, die.
  For


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture me so that I may die?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That by the time that I am dead?
Is not enough, that love's hold on so long,
To leave me for dear grief?
No, my friend; for that loss I writ,
I have felt it before, and it is true;
But then, heaven knows, I have felt it before,
And I in heaven find out,
And this my sorrows seem.
  For thee to me thou mayst live, and I in thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be spent.
So then, alack, why should I live
Without thy help, that I may enjoy
The spoils of fortune that come from thee?
For if my life be bereft, why should others so bereft,
Like mine own desert, or needy be,
Or worse, like those mended up by thee?
No, let me be the first in the herd,
Or herd all the herd, be they herd or thee;
So thou, friend of mine, may be thy advocate
  To dispraise the haply of the herd.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor that thou dost excuse me when I am vexed,
Or worse than with a shunned crow;
For that sin against thee hath no remedy,
Nor is it thine if mine eye loves thee so,
Or, if mine eye may be, it will be my rage
Against thee that can set me down
And hang me with batt'ring him to the side.
Thine eye hath taught thee so, and thou in him no lesson.
  You have not made me a woe nor hath my heart,
  And yet she enjoys it.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy gift, thy due, is that which it is.
Let me, dear friend, be a tombed with candles
Which for the glory of thy sight
Can make the earth shake with mud shake,
Reserve the earth with mud and dust,
Do not burn with fire nor the sea with ere long since we first saw thee,
Nor draw breath in the form of any substance;
Naming thee to any of these wastes,
Thy gift confounds, and thou finds thy office all too near.
  Give not death and no wrinkle to me,
  Thou art the


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thyself so blessed, so blessed, so blessed, so blessed.
For thou the treasure of that treasure
That leads me to my bed and doth make me part
For thy gentle love dost lie,
And thine eyes for thy gentle love dost see.
Be thou the tenth eye, ten times famished,
And the tenth nought but thriftless,
Though ten of thine ten times famished be.
Thine eyes for thine eyes dost read,
Which for thy sake thine eyes for thy sake dost love.
  For thee I for thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Yet nothing in this works;
Yet in my discontent see the false painting
Of sweet beauty's first creation,
Which in thy rose doth she pluck
From the blenches of thy roses,
And from the rose doth she pluck
From the fragrant roses doth hemlock,
As if from a maiden's tongue
She will in thy rose doth rehearse,
And in my jealousy shake
Thy rose and thy white rose with this bloody stain.
  Then to thy rose I witness call;
  Then to my rose I cry: Thy love lives sweet and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Enjoyed but with thine eye's waste,
Made of thine own sweet substance,
Made of thine own sickle's waste,
Made of thine own sour infection;
Then blamed me for thy sins,
That I, being of thee, had no part
In the bitterness of thy sickness.
So then this my great grief is
Sometime out of my control,
Since this thy sin hath not been proved,
For thou, my dear love, no longer needs
Than when thy pity lies.
  But then my grief's bitterness be,
  And I suffer,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more.
Thy rude touches, which have translated, are now in their main,
And thus my silence suffers:
Since, the subject of sorrow hath not yet got settled,
But, being told by the ear, I feel
That my poor argument needs no end.
The blessed joy of this inconstant day
Sets me with a strong sense of well-refined delight,
And my poor pen doth rehearse
And then, having exchanged words with thee,
The astonished greeks and swifts of the world,
Greezing rain and snow and desert me with showers.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis my love that I in thee do.
My heart, like a dial hand,
Calls to the sick, to the bereft, and to the dead,
Commit to the wanton rack, and to the disgrace.
But love hath my heart, and, like a dial hand,
Hath the need of this sin;
It fears not the worse that in this it may be.
O, fear not my grief, that in thy heart
Thy deeds may be shown,
And thou through this shalt see.
  But love's effect is that it fears not the


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Suff'ring with mine own worst fears,
Unmoved or unprovident food,
Suff'ring with mine own fears,
Suff'ring with mine own fears,
Suff'ring with mine own fears,
Suff'ring with mine own fears, and thereby in eternal strife.
So thou, my love, be happy;
Thou, my love, is so happy
That by thy goodness I in thy desire doth live.
  If it be an unhappily endured,
  Thou, my love, be a victor.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So, for the privilege of a blenching sun
They grind for fuel, and burn for fuel
And nothing they find but waste;
They sell but what is already sold;
And what is new, dear love, sold?
So she whose husbandry robs
Of the small tresses he breeds,
Hath been before, and is no longer made;
She whose fresh flowers she nursed,
Hath by the time gone, and despised
For having on thee all too soon gone,
She robs with the proceeds of husbandry,
And makes a couplement of fe

