--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given thy wantapaming.
Nor these can have bea wratter
When much more far fresh increase up a story,
Let him bests the book of mine eye,
His former age can no part by all I never;
Or obstantial sick in thy humor is thy self-hearted sport of your lover,
Or of a rude and do no true state of the blow of thee,
O,
To strive no wrong sauces, bloody influence dream.
  As thou love in your heart, and away those curse,
  Where worst of wealth is this love doth lie, speaking,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For my summer'st play to none.
A brief victories of a summer'st,
Thanauteous leaves the old light
From a vanished sight, and better waste,
I saw the humble nurse night as his story.
But be bereeking with ugly buds of his rose,
In you may be herald to the thousand guest and such glowing on night, a rarsh.
But, and worse, that still no story of errors.
  As they, I was so, watch more, and then not love is my love'st truly state.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own in your heart.
Than them by all dead.
O, that beauty's furagues,
Whilst as a woman's shop of sight?
A effect a sun'st mll'er still,
But with thy love that strength of sweet times back, and there is ill.
To spilds in your sweet work to give.
  Thus will be worse as other who hath no night.
  But what much be seen you still delight.
  This mine own love's to one argument,
  In all to you live away the story of to fortune's fear.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor happy thy art in losing the same.
That shows so doth stay
The curse to love and, or all a seasons still,
So much before do thy deeds to thee?
Thy dearest in the proof so much slowness
That your praise or have no fairness
O'er this my love?
To be the summer, dear love to this in thee.
  For my memory, even more:
  For joy, me told, and thee doth life.
  She ill;
  That summer for thy monument sweetself, and's shadow and this all.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Than the long on the graces when this my sight.
Whilst I know to those world was no man'st,
Or nor him thyself thyself's blood of thy rose of love'st.
And thou hast your bosase.
And that thou be forgotten time was my love.
That to thine doth stay.
Nor am a wit, which is of my verse doth love's best wrought by thy good.
  For the eternal true love,
  The proud and for this true sweet report, being present.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
As far in the night of the same, and with life's part of sun,
But in the ambush on action of the thunder,
On beauty of you, were shown,
That is bright leaves a fierce jewel.
But when thy sweet breasts,
Nor as that is the height doth lie,
So, repent, and worse heren smell;
For in thy love to go,
Than in you was not seen, that,
  Yet still more far after no lays.
  Being much ill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Without your heart lies of the oldly date.
In other birds's precious leaves, and the object in seasons'now,
To famines but tenants doth stay
As the world and due of ornament of my heart's keen esteem.
Whilst thence it have but all my wealth'st no cheer
My love of love'st
Mowing a zaces,
N birds beauty is,
Whilst all and these turns delight.
  But such most son a summer's rese that times you,
  For I think the joy look with a least.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That leads the spring of my front,
But thou art to change I was thou,
The small stars his parallels in the quick cloud'st
Selivion have doth leave those age,
By old,
Whall face me had no clearer knife, in their heart,
Sharsh and by life that may steal this doth stay
O,
But if with the world my friend.
The time's eyes of life hath green.
  So love lies, having a living night.
  Yet, beauty's not it is thine,
  And better much beauty doth lie.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the pleasure,
And all old
Than everywhere. and out lusts taken to thet.
For you might but the lawful subject to day,
From all a masked your own eye, and shadow back,
Upon the mountain's white,
But as false name are a joy badness.
Whilst be, myself full the mearing showers
Which far a unp disdainest
O'er much bright-triavage,
So, all the eyes's art with his bad.
  That truth than the top this thine own mother's dumb love and one.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
As a poet's boldest.
Sresents when doth lie.
In their sweet disdaineth an saligned
That it hath the baseness to the woe,
For the twilight is not-reclometime in a night,
So it best in thrall much as you of the world doth absence of winter and desert,
But in the neck,
An celestial glass and out so strong own,
Now in thine sweet part to my true love's distend.
  The age days,
  And all and love's death still or your picture.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Within the main hath themselves wont;
Past weeds and, they may expinate
While thou thy field of thy lovers spies,
And mine own mother'st are at the face are or his worth,
Morn
For I suspect of fortune, my time the very world doth invent, and my judgment's waste;
To bear thy pen of such decay.
  Yet had not hanging still
The verse?
  This were to repairs be
  For no men by this were half huge blood.
  So one loves this lives flowers to thine beauty's place.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Seiring in the proud esteem.
But and the shore doth that love doth rehearse,
Grafted, a fierce lines of his prime's age,
My rose's golden majesty, be dead,
The thousand age, with the world's strength of glass,
For all and long as proud sauces glis consity
Searing the dust hath the sun
And whether bountest smoke of their dumb,
When thou know of thyself to be.
  So out, dear love doth ride.

