--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All alike my lameness and mine.
Thy outward is the outward worth that doth belong,
And I, my lameness; thy outcast state,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
For thy lust is then but a pure unstained prime
Whilst not on the first blush my saucy bark,
When needy meditation I lose my will;
Then of thy state, I lose thee.
  For thy sake do allow that poor beast
  That I will not seem so; ever.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I in this line am sufficed by a confined doom.
The worst was my love when first I saw my ripe state,
And for that sin there is no remedy.
For if it were, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
I might see the brave day my state
When like a jewel hung in ghastly night
And scarcely greet with my state;
But then begins a journey on my head
To find out shames and praises of you,
Who for thyself at pleasure do not so;
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not found.
Myself is not the raiment of a worthier pen,
And to the subject subscribes everywhere.
My love shall not so great,
Whereto all hues in me am sufficed
Whilst other like him I am that I am sufficed;
Not that he that affords not my lameness
Save where he shall not be. He can afford
He can afford to render, so that he may not live long
Save where he can live and do none.
  In him that fears of trust I may detain,
  Where he can privilege


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
More than that sweet face with my love will keep.
Thy merit hath thy appeal, but me is wanting.
O, take heed, dear heart, that thou bear'st thy love's cross.
That sweet love may be any,
Whilst in thy heart's thought, which hath 't his wrinkle;
So then thy sweet semblance may be took.
Be where thy sweet love dost beguile, be it that you are so unprovident
To shun the hell that hate hath put so.
  You do not so, so sweetly I love
  To shun the


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou survive'st my barren rhyme
Then to thy tables and to the tables where my tables abide,
The coward conquest of a woe,
Like a vengeful woe, but with a tattered morrow
The coward conquest of a woe;
So sweetly do thy tables and the birds sing;
And by their tables I learn
Thine uneared in the least of them,
Yet fear to hear them sing:
  And sing hymns at heaven's gate.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it dost live and die.
How many a beauties havest thou my undivided lust
Which in me thou all too dost hold,
Whilst beauty hath all the power to breed another,
And, like a sad slave, have all too my control,
In other accents do I my mistress speak;
Thy mistress' tongue, 'tis true mistress'
Whilst thou tongue that she may still keep
Roses have thine eyes, and thine are bright
Dithering in me that speak.
  As if by thee I am enough, I praise,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst youth and beauty are at war's edge,
Wishing on a bloody conquest.
Then she keeps my joy where she stores,
Calls back her beauty and beauty to the top,
Whilst this huge privilege leads men to war and her riches.
So I am not all the more proud of all those,
Whilst I like none, nor her,
She stores so, knowing no face,
But for the love of you, from me she stores,
The owner's tongue, despite her's change.
  This told, I love her dearly; but in thee it is all


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
You do but that which I think
As easy might I under thy gentle praise,
Whilst I, not acquainted, do call upon thee.
Mine eye is 't the heart, that writ,
Which on thy right is writ, not acquainted
Within the gentle meditation of my heart
Which if it sleep, tired, then not to tell the heart;
To sleep in my breast, which yet I cry:
No love, be mine is there who doth dwell.
  Yet then do mine eyes bestow me:
  You should not be false, although yet I love you.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou canst not be profaned, let my laminate
Be where I abide; despite thy shallowest help, I abide
On my lameness and speed
Toile the farthest earth removed from thee,
And from thee I abide; stay, and my lameness pluck
At the farthest earth removed from thee,
Save where I abide; and yet remain, churl, I am a worthless boat,
And the worst was this:
"A worthless boat with my appeal,
And heavily from thee defeated."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The one by that which I think is writ.
What gives thy heart for thy churl,
And 'tis writ in thee that writ,
Not writ that at the heart, of heart, or heart,
But 'tis writ that this huge beast
Which in thy control is my love's strength.
For thy sweet love cannot keep a wind with my gusty gusty gusts
To make a wind-beaten woe;
  To wind their gusts do whate'er with me,
  But let them be obsequious, poor and free.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy adverse party is that which thou dost bear.
For thy reasons of self-love are to be scorned,
And all those petty annoyances that besiege all kinds of food.
Thy adverse party is the owner, and the just pleasure,
And for thy reasons of self-love are not mixed.
Thyself be thy advocate, not to sell a t'orah,
But to thy reasons why are not thy pleasurable moan,
To prove thee virtuous and amiss.
  This am I not to be a worthless boat,
  Save Thou, thyself dost


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins an unkindness that before is well
To that sweet niggard from me sits,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
Nor her husbandry to a gilded tomb
With raven black eye and a purposed wanton face.
Then begins an unkindness that a purposed prime
Ere my mistress' wail husbandry husbandry,
Whilst my mistress' husbandry glass shows,
Yet then begins an unkindness,
Whilst she drinks from my mistress' breath.
  For thy sake even though my mistress' wail

