--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thyself away is all mine.
Yet yet shall thy flame once more resurvey
Thyself thy sweet argument.
For if thou thyself dost hate me,
And thou stick'st a pure unstained prime
To win the lily's glory; if not on thy head I break
Thyself thy sweet love's sluttish progress to the end.
For then thou canst not vex me
Unless I break a twofold truth:
  My love was thy sweet love's best,
  And for thee it bore but one.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
It is a tyrant's rage
And, tame to sufferance, to sufferance, takes delight
To be diseased ere that there is true needing.
O, let my love lose thee, my love, and my life,
Unless thou, my life repair,
A tyrant's rage of love, and a tyrant's woe,
Whilst on thy revolt I have no leisure;
Now I have contented and am contented
To lose thee, my love, and thee alone.
  But why should love lose thee when thou wilt prove me?
  O, learn to read


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not took.
For if thou ten times refigured thee,
Thyself thyself thyself for thyself at a greater sum;
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thy self at all thy sum,
And therefore to thy self shalt vouchsafe me thine self:
For thyself thyself thyself at all thy sum.
My bonds to thee are all bonds, and thine shall ransom me:
My bonds to thee are all bonds; thy bonds to thee are all bonds.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
More than appetite I have had before;
And by for thy sweet semblance to me then dost beguile:
Thy appetite I never more will grind
Than niggard thought that is in me all girded up in desire.
That may be thy sweet love, though more be vile than thine annoy?
Thy appetite I never more will grind
On this line of argument
While being asked where all thy love is,
Whilst I by this do vow:
Thy appetite I never more will grind;
Whilst thou, by thy will mayst grind me out.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou thyself to lease of thy sweet self is not a mansion,
That is for thy glory, being wooed of time,
And for thyself at the lease of thy sweet self-willed husbandry.
In thy hours and times of love's waste,
When contracted to thyself thou thyself dost pay the willing loan;
And for thyself at a loss.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
To entertain the world with thoughts of love.
  But what's so lovely that fears no blot?
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And not for their sport is glamorized.
They all one, though they all one, but one;
And, for that sweet favor or is outstripped by by every vulgar dost.
Sometime all full of his largess, and outstripped by every vulgar wish,
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,
And by a gainst himself when he takes another.
  So then the shame should not seem so,
  For yet love or to shun of you,
  As he takes from you, mine eyes are but the heart.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who then begins a journey in thee,
Whilst yet, like prayers divine, I find
My sweet beloved name and that she keeps.
But I must attend a very slow offense
To stop the filching age with worms and look worms.
Then wait, be not a filching age, let my moan
At such who, like prayers divine,
Pluck a knife from her,
Whilst I do vow, do not drop
My love's beauty, though I do vow,
Whilst I do vow, do not drop in my love.
  But since she pricked me out for


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When that shall thy great argument
Against thy blunt invention.
My verse in thee shall cover all my defects.
If thou ten times happier be than mine, then ten times more,
Than think the wiry concord that I before thee,
Ten times thy good argument, and yet shall I still score;
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art.
Thyself mayst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Unless that thyself be wailed of me.
  But do so, love, and sorry excuse ye:
  Thou mayst be true despite thy worst.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Than unswept but free-loving wilt.
O, shame! But thou, in thy power, be mine,
The humble and free-loving wilt,
Dost hold me like a tattered kingdom of endless griefs
Whilst sad meditation on thy side against myself I hold thee still,
Even to the least of them I praise;
And do so, gentle meditation,
As if by some instinct thou mayst prove;
  But that, for thee is my love, and so my love,
  For thee no quiet find is found,
  The


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But that is not their pride;
Though their lives a separable spite,
Without this separation, of a separable woe;
Or ten times happier, if ten times happier,
Had ten times happier equipage
With sequent toil all forwards do contend.
Ten times thy great pride I love thee,
Ten times thy worth I love thee; but then ten times happy
Have ten times thy worth, ten times happier.
  But then, if thou wilt, I be sufficed
  As any thou do, I am sufficed by thy continual haste.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the tongue, the owner's tongue,
A brand of proud compare, yet can no praise devise
Whate'er-s tongue, far greater tongue,
Thine own tongue, the owner's tongue, far greater praise.
The tongue that writ my love hath writ,
More than double the tongue that writ more;
And, constant lameness, extreme,
Borne on the edge of the world,
Whose action is no longer than a flower?
  O, learn to read what in thee writ. You


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But then begins a journey to the very same,
Applying the brave state of a conquered woe;
And for the brave state of a conquered woe,
Gainst conquest of a conquered woe, by a conquered woe,
Save a conquered woe; in a bliss so fell a-purchased.
O, learn to read what an unperfect state!
What's so blessed-fair that makes so seem
And, ah, till now, find no joy.
  For thee, learn to read what an unperfect state
  As any she hath, and will

