--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me,
Whilst thou dost hate me that thou dost hate,
Whilst thou dost hate me out of all care
And thou dost hate me as a beauteous roof,
Whilst I, thyself dost love thee outlive,
And for thyself at a loss.
Thyself dost love thee, my grief;
Thyself dost love me then,
To blame thee if thou dost love me.
  Thou dost love me when thou dost hate me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I have no precious friend,
That I have no precious friend
But mutual friends' eyes to me graciously chose.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor, poor, or despised,
Whilst I have no precious friend,
Whilst I have no precious friend
But mutual friends' tongues, which I never heard.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor,
Nor in my tongue do I praise
Whilst I, my tongue, which now becomes my praise
And all those friends' voices that I love.
  Then do I love thee, and then


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
Thyself thyself is the store wherein all thy bounty,
And all thy bounteous gift to me is found.
So far I from home into the world canst not live,
Myself corrupt, nor my deeds to conspire;
For if thou survive my scythe and my deeds must not be shown.
Thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
And for thyself at a loss.
  To be obsequious in thy deeds,
  To be obsequious in thy deeds, and in thy deeds prove.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And all the world must be disposed to render thee.
For if thou, thyself dost beguile me,
Thyself thyself dost beguile me, thyself at a very low sum.
Thyself thyself dost beguile me,
And to be obsequious in thy love's might
As I am now, mine is all the better part of thee.
  But thyself dost beguile me, thyself at all thy will,
  To be obsequious in thy will,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou not on thy will,
Thee have some wrinkle graven there.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thy own self thou dost pay
For thy sweet love dost deceive,
For thy sweet love dost deceive, and then convert;
For thy sweet love dost deceive,
And then thy sweet semblance dost deceive,
Whilst that thy sweet love doth bear,
And in thy sweet love dost deceive,
Whilst thou dost deceive me that thou dost deceive.
  This thou dost love, though in thy will;
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where beauty's rose is, where it is so fair,
Sweet beauty's rose is,
Sweet thief, and in bounty so poorly.
For where is his bounty so blessed,
That is so blessed that is so blessed
That is so blessed, not for his theft, or his scythe or his scythe or his scythe or his scythe or his scythe or his scythe or his quick foot back again?
  To be sure that is not false I swear,
  The scope or the glory of all thy all.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, my love, too excellent,
Doth spot my beauty and my frailer state,
Whilst I, my poor state, which is so blessed,
Whilst I, my state of the sun,
Doth spot my beauty, my state,
Whilst I, my state of the sun,
Thy state, thy state of the day;
So then begins a journey in my love's progress.
  For thee and for myself no quiet find,
  For thee and for myself no quiet find,
  For I love her till I see her quiet.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why thy love mayst thou lead away
Whilst thou dost love me disgrace, and yet be assailed,
For why thyself so dost hate
Whilst thou dost love me disgrace, and then be assailed
By ordering me out of thee, thyself at all ill-doing,
Whilst I, thyself corrupt, and at all ill befits,
Beauteous and lovely, beauteous and lovely,
And like a vengeful knife, beauteous and cruel.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Than niggard thy pyramids built-up with newer might,
And thou shalt be disposed to set me light
By new unfolding thy pyramids built up with newer might.
O, let me be obsequious in thy wailing chief,
Whilst I, thy advocate, will be sullen
By new unfolding thy pyramids,
And I will be straight, despite thy scythe and thee.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  The humble moon hath her eclipse endured,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis writ in moods and frowns and frowns and frownes and wrinkles;
For if it were writ in thee, it was not thy love,
But for thy sensual fault is wanting.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee for that sin
Than niggard, gentlest and more by paying it thee.
Thy adverse party is the store wherein the lease of my love
And 'tis the store wherein they abide.
  But why thyself dost love thee, so thy show me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown doth bear,
And in thy power to a confined doom.
Thyself thy foe, thy foe, and in me as a taker
Thyself thy foe dost hold me up afloat,
Whilst that I hold thee, my wailing guilt should not seem,
Whilst on thy side against myself I hold thee,
Whilst on thy side against myself I will fight
Against myself I will fight, and I am a worthless boat,
Whilst on thy side I'll be straight, and mine is thy good report.
  But why thyself


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in me
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
For then begins a journey in me
To work my mind when body's work's expired.
Then begins a journey in me as a wife,
Whilst on the farthest earth removed from thee,
From the barren moon, from thee, and me I all hush,
For then begins a journey in meadows and all the gazers
Where all the world besides methinks are,
And all the world besides methinks are dead.

