--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou thy picture's form is allayed,
And by this judgment I am cast
The vacant leaves the tillage of thy heart,
Whilst thou dost hold me still, still with mine eye,
Save where thou dost hold me still,
Whilst I, thyself outgoing,
Thyself away are still the count of a lost woe,
And thine away, thy picture still with me.
  Yet, till the judgment that mine eyes are filled with thee,
  The worst was this: thy picture was my love's picture.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I have no precious friend,
No precious friend to none alive,
But for that friend hath my friend's treasure ere it be self-tied.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor, poor, or free,
Wishing on the world, for it no more will be.
I do forgive some petty grief,
But then do forgive some petty grief
And hang my tongue, which I think is all too woe.
  This flattery I think on,
  Since why should I love thee so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
Thyself thyself thyself is the store wherein thy sweet key,
Whilst he that which he stole,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I, my unkindness, are at a loss.
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Than think my name is a brand;
For thou, thyself at a loss,
And I by this will be a gain
And gain by a gain by a gain by a gain;
And gain by a gain by a gain by a gain;
And gain by a gain by a gain by a gain;
  But do not so. I love thee, my love, though thou be mine,
  As thy sweet love shall not be, mine is thy sweet love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy outward thus is crowned with thy graces,
And all thy graces graced with thy graces,
Whilst this thy power to mine own worth do none,
Doth part his glory, and his glory die.
For thy sweet love remembered no sooner,
Thy sweet love hath cast his utmost sum,
And that is not mixed with friends,
But mutual render,
And thine own sweet beloved name be buried where thou live.
  But if thy love were minded so, thy love shall still live,
  And I love thee, thy love shall still live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein dost beguile the world,
Where beauty's rose lives a gilded tomb,
Which hides the treasure of a treasure so rare.
Then do thy worst, mine eyes, my love,
Whilst they sleep, and look strange,
Like to hear with a bewailed guilt;
Then do thy worst, mine eyes, mine eyes, mine eyes, and thy picture.
O, mine eyes, mine eyes, thy picture's form,
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved,
  The


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth on the farthest earth,
And then begins a journey in my breast,
Whilst on the farthest earth removed from thee,
The farthest earth removed from thee, is the farthest earth removed from thee.
Then begins a journey in my breast,
Whilst I, my breast, thy breast, thy breast,
Do not so much as mine own desert,
Save where she is, and so destroys
The very worst of love's woe,
Whilst she pricked me out for thee.
  She pricked thee out


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I must vow, despite thy wrong,
That thou no form delivers thee to that which thou send'st from me.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
But what's so blessed-fair
That thou, thyself dost love, make me travel forth without my cloak,
To let base clouds o'ertake me far from thee,
To dry the rain on my rain-beaten shore,
And from thee all I abide;
  And nothing 'Tis 'tis 'tis 'tis 'tis for thee to dry the rain.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to hurt,
Whilst I, thy advocate, do not so.
O, let not be obsequious in thy woe,
Whilst I, thy advocate, and in thy woe do contend
Thee have I not seen a zealous appeal;
Thy argument is not my love's woe,
But I grant, if it be so grounded inward,
And by thy will may do none.
  But do not so. I love thee, my love,
  For thy love no cause can prove.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not to thee, though they bevel; but in me they all hang
Thyself dost beguile me.
For if they sleep, my heart hath writ,
Whilst they sleep, dark in dark directed,
I see thy shadow on thy sight,
And 'tis the first: mine eye is my love's gold complexion,
And 'tis the first: mine eye is my love's gold complexion.
  For thyself at a frown doth put my heart,
  For thyself at a frown doth put my heart,
  As thus: mine eye is thy outward


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
Which to thy state is in my love's power,
Whilst it hath no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
And stops at a purposed overthrow.
For if thou thyself at all thy state,
The coward conquest of a woe,
Thyself at a loss.
Thyself at a loss, thy state,
And, all in war with thee I do vow:
  Thou shalt be true, and love me nothing.
  Thou mayst be true, and yet be beloved
  That


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in me,
Whereto all hounds, and I straight depart
As from the marigold at the marigold at the marigold at the sun's gate
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
Whilst my marigold at the beck and my marigold at the beck,
Whilst on the edge of doom,
And by and by my uneared womb keep open
Save where thou dost stay, though I be absent.
  But then begins a journey in my love,
  As I am with thee, mine is thy

