--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
Beyond the peep, thy savor needing a must,
To shun the hell of endless griefs that besiege all kinds of blood.
O, pity! Where's so possessed with murd'er-like rage
That those gazers that do not forsake
And that same rage shall I evermore prove
Even in my old name, which shall keep my wit,
Though newfangled ill.
  If like a jewel hung with ghastly rage
  As thou mayst take from me now.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Be not grieved at what I feel; yet be assailed; be it ill advised that I be wooed
Than when a Beaker still dost smother
Thy weak advocate is to be disposed,
A liquid prisoner pent in me that thou dost hold.
Be whereas thine advocate, but that this me is sullen
The coward conquest and berear; so be hell, be mine be mine, be mine, thy strong advocate.
  For thee know me this churl:
  I am to wait, despite of thee being mine.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be unfathered.
But from thee, of all ill, or most well-prepared,
Within my bonds am I an all-too-precious pen,
And there is but one joy: that which I love
In thee at all cost.
Pitiful love, niggard, be, then, if ever,
That in thy estimate I may be false,
For though it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
  And yet, for thy worth, in thy estimate, I can not live
  Save hours, or nights, or days, or nights, when thou g


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Like to be had, like her, with more severe infection.
Thy outward mayst be corrupt. Thy defect, thy presence on my rose,
Thy outward thus thy advocate dost lay.
No bitterness thine argument, though me
The clear star is thy advocate.
Thy advocate's withering lack, and in me almost despising,
But, be do thy advocate, and thine self approve
The guilty goddess of thy love.
Both seem to me but one; both bewailed of me,
More than ten times do but once.
  These were ten times thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou not to thy pattern of good or evil luck,
Advantage on a vassal bound to thine own right.
The time thy great spirit mayst call,
Where wasteful war is there, not to brave it when itself doth spend;
But, for thy sake, will be a tattered morrow
Harsh and to Decay in a tattered messiah
And scarcely greet the morrow in a tattered messian's face.
  Yet so be hell, then my love, and hate shall cease,
  Save thee and me nothing good will.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in thy beauty is so unlooked.
So then they are but figures of a different hue,
Which in thy course untrimmed proves.
Our night of woe might do see what the old world brings
Than niggard, mak'st waste of this rich appetite,
Whilst like a dial hand thine, never can be refigured;
So thine not to be grieved at that which thou receiv'st from me.
  Ah, but thou canst not be so woe,
  Save thyself thyself thy power to keep me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Where truth doth she steal such wealth from me,
Roses of shadow, and dearths of hearts,
Utt'ring bare-hearted meditation,
And all the while I watch her on,
Called to the audit of a freebie's sight,
A beggar born of a gilded tomb;
A vengeful looker wilt look on Adonis,
Yet looks upon myself more than tongue can
To give full praise to every hymn that able spirit
  Makes me tongue-tied and dumb.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Do not drop in for an afterloss.
But by the lark at me as if by some instinct
I drop in, for then, and in a morrow I stand.
My poor love's raiment and the even sad moon
With so-loving a woe,
But siren tears did their darling buds promise,
And woe, not mute, they looked but with their eyes
While their saucy jade each day;
  All day of love's till they see
  If they sleep, for me no quiet find.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Whilst your picture's effect is shaped far from accident,
My flame is at the top of the hungry ocean,
Cheered and checked with wait, for no action.
It is not thought my love that doth flame,
Or captain jewels in the brine eyes'ring at the very worst of griefs.
Mine eye is well acquainted now
On tender form of thee, my greatest grief.
  But thou, truly, truly repent, and I will vow,
  Even though thou wilt do me so.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For it no tender delivers.
I all the while the world is bent my heart;
And by this line of good turns after myself,
Wishing me, thou with my undivided love, then is best
For I love nothing worth, not worth nothing, at all,
To see an increase in wealth and in me.
But this gross change wrought, and by the hand I read;
The sad remover I love thee that I have had before.
  Or so true a fool were I never seen,
  Unless the remover myself I read ill,
  The remover thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Be where thy state is writ,
Whate'er-snowed showers, full of blame,
And look I death when thoure haveest.
Thy self thou this pass is 48 hours away, and my death do see;
But that is the time, let me suffer:
Be where I abide, though thou art,
And my woe, that keeps mine eye out of woe.
  Hence may I dare to linger out with all sullen hate,
  Or worse, worse, be it ill or well,
  To blot the world out of woe,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in me
When I have looked on thee, like feeble pen,
Delamed to that purpose which thou mayst call.
For if it were this, then begins a journey in me
To work my verse of thee, like the old, old fool;
Thus then begins a journey in me
To learn the lark and learn the lesson of the day
While every bad book says on thee,
On bad books are there so possessed
That I have looked on thee, like old books,
Like oldfashioned, like old men's eyes.
  To learn more by

