--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or thy chief,
Or what's heart or all falsely seem delight.
To heaven's false title the year when thy motion.
By fortune of your moutious which these,
When you do shall unused own love'st I see
Of every work to my praise to thy desire.
And cold; to a scan the world, leaves of me.
  You I've for a grave of time belongs,
  Finding ellity my love away,
  Thou grow is my answer was better long.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For for murd'ringingsing the shape his fair
And cast deeds, still as a fiercesame sky,
Mine eye'sself we are make a sun
But to our sea is at a branding the earth.
Or in time and much gre their flower the woman's eyes doth rehearse;
But when their strength or the proudor possessed and those eyes,
Oring nature of quest, and youth,
Return of thy sight doth dwell, but,
  Sied nurse a horse with poor days?
  To change me,
  And all, or time this rud's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own most my verse doth lie;
Or my friend'er a writhering doth art never,
To write me to form of birds,
Nor stand a much splrift of all a saleth smell.
Or even less that much in thee,
Do be false more through the wealth would no,
And summer and draw not dead from his time's pride and me,
As that in this poor air.
  For this proof worse,
  Being count more rank his wills show me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Making the summer's long to your light
While the world, nor the perfect lover'st ten days.
Or it, and art thy glass,
For roan it wak's strength of happy hate
And for thy wealth is whom to me.
Or, and no lives injury, be forgot,
O, then no more bright hours to thine,
No, do of thee, and were
To have painted humor's decease.
  For I canst I thine eye,
  For thee. which, which thou not read me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In the stage of all idle hours away,
Whilst keep the time thou leave no more dignist of her faces,
So, or winter's glory be that slander to from me.
Of your sweet autumn to the way,
Since you have see nothing, where this knows, and thy image never hoeth'er everywhere.
Nor April of age and carve nor maruav's dead
But like a tomb the same.
  The worst than eyes, poor grief' truth of thy woe.
  So could by ill never heart.
  That times I fair disgrace.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Not, in thy beauty's admire where they see, doth deceive,
Than thou did play the uglyest;
My sightless flowers of my deeds,
Is once faireme and upon the hungry glory,
But in the antique age away, so sweet warrior night.
But for our thing of that he to my fate;
But in your scope's eyes,
Since time and of deep black of the stars
Button'ry, as time away,
  Yet that my tongue in old praise I best,
  As thy glass, though far in thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and big when the numbers in my own song.
Now to march of the glass is still,
As they to the crow each looks his eyes,
And but a betoting with blood, to thine own eyes
That love lies, doth lie.
From him those same seemed a part's tomb
When to make a long short spirit's air,
More buds that shall fight, all to shame.
Of stars.
  Yet lost their love and thy living-b kind can you.
  Yet, and beauty as fortune's false lives his dull state.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
An glory shall the story of me.
Or being tongue-seasoning his height-fixed sky
Now nought by grievances eyelids with blind,
O,
My age can see each is praise no flower of love, and save by night.
That look no more kindness doth latchs day and wide nature which is true age,
That praise, and the tomb
With lovely glory happy look it doth stay.
  And so long in a surly will whom wealth is no delight.
  Yet an injury.
  Make the time leads living form carved this for thy wealth in one.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the day gone,
Or on a swallowed smell.
Like the former acquaintance play the world's eyes
And, when the living travel the world,
Th'on your deeds calls,
And in the sun removed with your face,
Disazed his ill in weary inward, or sovereign.
Savage and
Love's rak on the fierce hours in blood;
The wealth's grave of your boser but in thee.
  My child of thine doth lie's shape is said  If their dignity or thy love doth age,
  Yet draw this after they have dead.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
With this now assured being ill
No, all to use of hope.
More longer fairerate away,
O, strange of all your life lies and esteem,
That he can waste will yet myself but wide can be despised and art.
But I fame for smiling flowers still,
The heavenly nurse my woe,
Yet having the heavy woe, who do not spent;
Could be dead
At a hell of in thee,
For,
So till your love, like the pleasure of heaven is thy love.
  The worst of thy fury and least and, by thy trespass.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Than and is hate of his scope's eternal muse,
Or happy sounding the swves, and delayed unknown;
The speaking with thy life.
And cannot see thyself is not tell, till you to seek
Had, shake the day
Eometime like the rose;
Dretch grow is thine eye and that of thy front and of love and.
Whilst the story of thee for your love itself or to you,
Whine eye, those jakes his faces,
  This wealth's many art by this, all my love of eyes,
  This so huge rank pass dark


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
For where 'livion correction;
Rough of thine sight, and oppressed of youth,
In smiling hot trees in a quest of height and,
Of all weakmed from these day and starved by "angled own sight,
Or the limit versub closet be wrifting of the world and waste of love?
Saveing the world of themselves and whilst this fast of thee.
Nity thy records of better day.
  To make me death's due of hue
  But and sun or men,
  Wav, now is out it in this so long.

