--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy face a shadow of mine own,
Which they deem to be a disgrace.
I am not thy advocate,
My dear love; thou art mine.
O, what a shame! Thy eyes are not so bright,
Which so strangely bright I see,
And yet thou, mine eyes, are like a child
Which, in their rich eyes, find thee far from home.
  They view not beauty but their envy,
  Which they perceive to be their folly.
  They see not thy beauty but their envy,
  Which they perceive to be their disgrace.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or to show my true love to my sweet love,
If I am to be the prey of envy,
Or of lust's own worst;
Or to love that I do love,
Or of your sweet love's spite,
Or of your jealousy's cruel spite.
For that I am hated by no one but myself,
Nor your love by any man but myself.
  And yet I think, 'tis not enough that I am hated,
  That I will love you all, even if you hate me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
For what I want and need of thee.
So, for my part, thou hast now converted me
To a state of pleasure,
And, by thy action, to a state of disgrace.
I will not ransom thee, for I love thee so
That thou mayst take away my treasure.
Thy action hath not done me wrong,
Nor my love nor thy love's injury.
  Yet thou, my sweet thief, hath done me wrong.
  I will not ransom thee, for I love thee so.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art my slave, and yet thou wilt not be so
If, in the temptation of love, thou wilt lose thy will.
Thou art the sweetest, and the most precious jewel
Of all the beauties that is in thee.
Yet, for love's sake, thou wilt lose thy will,
For love is such a loving thing that, in spite of thy will,
Heavily doth lose his hold,
And that is why thou art so hated.
  And that is why thou art so despised.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou art assured, if thou canst still believe,
That I am the true and true heir of thy love.
Thou art so assured, that thou art the heir of my love,
That I am thy sovereign and bound to keep thee.
Thou art so assured, that I am the true heir of thy love,
That, if I should dare to lie, thou art the heir of my love.
  Thou art so assured, that I am the true heir of my love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou art the wretch that dost lie,
And yet thou dost make them blind,
Thou art so deceived in their eyes
That they can see but thee,
And thou art the true beauty of them.
If thou art so deceived, then thou art so despised
That thou shouldst find the wretch to be
And thus shouldst steal thy heart.
  But thou art so deceived, that thou art so despised
  That thou shouldst find the wretch to be
  And thus shouldst steal thy heart.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might know that I am but a babe,
And that she might in my breast, which is built of glass,
Be born of glass's dead, and live for ever,
And in this age and in this age shouldst thou be buried,
And all the rest be nothing,
Unless my love were made glass's dead,
And that she might be buried with me.
  But this, that thou mayst see my true love
  I love not so much as thou know'st.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In thy deeds, if I be condemned,
Thy crime shall be the fairest offense.
For what use is thy crime if not committed
With thy scope and thine own eyes?
Thy crime, in my judgment, is thy trespass,
And thou, my crime, thy trespass'st.
Thou art my prey, my prey's prey,
And, if thou steal my treasure, thou steal'st my life.
  This, though I be mute, yet thou, my prey,
  Kill'st not me, nor thy treasure be.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy state's character.
O, if it be true, thou art a tyrant,
Thy state's wealth is too great, and thy pride too great.
O, if it be true, I am a proud and rich man,
And yet I am not contented with thy riches,
Nor do I mourn for thy poor state,
Nor do I weep for thy worthiness.
  For thy state is thine, and thou art the state's chief treasure.
  Thy state is not to be despised, but hated to be.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For that which is true loves truth,
And to myself truth's counterfeit.
For why should I hate thee, if thou art so sweet and so true,
And I thy jewel that bears all thy merit?
Thou art the true jewel that dost lie hid,
And all the world's best to thee.
For if I hate thee so, I love thee more than I hate thee.
  But love is not my sweet love,
  And it doth my heart hate thee,
  For it doth so hate thee that I love thee so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which I am by thy argument,
Which thou thy self-love so strongly engrafts.
Thou, in thy own pride, my pride
Thou hast a right to hate,
Which in thy pride is the conquest.
But my pride is thy pride,
And that my love is not so strongly built
As in thy self-love, but so strongly built
That thou, being so strongly built,
Is my pride and thy self-love in war.
  For that I am so strongly built
  That thou mayst love, but not so strongly.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, to the amazement of my loving eyes,
My loving husband doth in my breast shake,
Aching to thrust his weight on her.
My husband doth in my breast shake again,
And, wracked with the burden of his absence,
Doth throw his weight upon her, to her breast.
Then, being shaken, I find myself wracked with shame,
And in my husband's absence wrack with shame,
  To see him so defeated that I am dumb.
  Then, being shaken, I find myself wracked with shame,
  And in my

