--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of mine eyes there are but shadows,
My heart, though it therein perceive,
Making black grief seem.
'Tis thee, my love, that in mine eyes
Thine eyes I view thy shade,
So poor, sadistic, and spiteful that in mine eyes
I see thy self esteeming thy humor.
'Tis thee, my love, that in mine eyes
Thine eyes in mine sightes love,
And I in mine sightes thy greece.
  But, for


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse found in the confounds of time,
To linger on for dear love's sake,
While I in the dark find no face where
My veins and the keen nerves
Distribute thine own blood, with all those brain dead
At the beck and by with all those whose churl Death to me would lead.
Not by night nor by day nor by day nor by night
But by darkness do I see that thou sleep'st
That time and all men are dead and I am in the dark.
  Then be contented when thou sleep'st,
  Not by night nor by


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision
In thy sight doth deceive
And into mine own self doth dwell.
Ah, but now, free from thy sight,
Now I no longer boast
That my steeled love doth love me,
No longer mine own self-love doth thine steal,
And him, for self-love dost steal that
And him for love dost steal that away.
Now I be free, and from thy sight
No longer boast that I am thine,
No longer mine own in love's sight,
No longer thy own in hate's sight, no longer theirs.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I with gust and with gust am forced to win?
Thou art more than my gust and I in the gust;
Thou art more than any horse, and she more than any mother;
Yet be most proud of that which she brings forth,
Lest I not praise thee like she brings forth,
Nor praise her skill, nor that she gains,
Lest I, the self-possessing gust, should say so,
"Thy glass hath more than thy appetite; yet I praise thee so that she enjoys it."
Be not so tickled by the gust that bears thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, give thy love some rest, that I may be with thee,
For as in the strong of love thine,
So that for thy sake I may be with thee alone,
Thyself I by thy control bring my woes under control,
And that in the repair of thy defect,
Thy broken glass, thy defect being restored,
Sinks thee down to death, where thou live'st, and then I scorn to see thy image resurvey,
For thou, that art thy art, is a ruined shame.
  Thy confounder, on thy part, who on thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art the master of their salve,
And they drink from thine salve when they see it
The freshest rose doth play on thy fingers;
They look into the beauty of thy blood,
And on thine salve they find the pearl.
So thou, behold, I am the master of thy salve,
And they for thy pleasure, believe me.
Thy palate is the world's distillation; what the world's distillation says
Thy glass tongue doth use, in it.
  L'ascivious conceit leads thee to this distillation


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which means truth is a waste of time.
If this were a boy, it must be ruminated on
Within thine own deep-sunken eyes
How far a lie in love's head
Who decease themselves by their own false painting,
Making war upon every shadow,
Making war upon every tongue,
Making war upon every tongue,
Making war upon every tongue, making war upon every tongue,
Bearing no defense against every vulgar slander.
  All tongues, sweet boy; I in love's wide universe
  Have seen both the sun and moon peep,
  Which,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save me not with thy tongue, though it be dead.
Yet in my feeling the right hand, and in the other both
Thine ear tell
What bitterness my heart can find
That 'tis due to an ill friend that 'tis.
Against these false thoughts my heart's content
Doth spend the rest of the day,
And straight from thy heart drowns the rest;
  And then the sick nurse, whose love still doth live,
  Unthrifts but grief's be, and the lovely creature dead.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such bad faith in thy breast, that I in thee
Askance will not dare slander thee,
Lest thou from the mouths of tyrants so mock
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more famous than mine,
Lest I be assailed with false invent
As well as tyrants and counterfeiters whose charter is false,
Thy worth, being so strongly in my chest,
Suff'ring him with a distended infection
To lose his rank while he heals?
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more famous than mine;
  Save where manners dies, so thou canst


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I in thee art that they love thee in another.
Thy love was my birth, and thou my love,
Thy love's influence, and in me that was.
Now, all alone, with thee gone,
The world is at an end,
And I in thee still reign,
Thy sweet love doth live, and I in thee still reign.
So, love, be thou, this, my love; this with love's consent thou be.
  If this be error, be of love's gain,
  My love is love's loss, and in me's


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself in thy love's rose; mine own sweet love now lies,
Who by thy fair state doth now confound
To bear love's cross against itself.
So then mine own sweet love cannot be blamed,
Nor mine own sweet love be blamed either way,
Though mine own sweet love be blamed,
But that mine own love's cross against itself be.
If thou mine mine, mine self I am the offender,
Thyself not, thy fault being mine.
  Therefore mine is mine and thy pleasure,
  Not mine's guilt nor my love's guilt.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
No sooner, nor more, nor less,
Than from the moose, nor the largemouth fowl,
Crawls her to the ground, and lays waste
In a brackish mess, full of mud,
Hiding the rank odor of decay.
No sooner then she receives
The swift pass of the wrack,
No sooner then the jade is brought
By the sweet smell of the bough,
Nor by the joy of the moan,
But by the smell of the bough's rotten hide.
  But when I have heard the word 'bough'

