--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in their riot I burn
The very same blood that I so crave,
Yet I in thy heart
Thine eyes I view thy sweet love,
And yet, spite of their riot,
Thy hate is strong and constant.
Thou mayst call upon them, but not so thy heart;
They are but sweet and lovely eyes
Which, like sweet flattery on thine eyes,
Have an ever-cloying look on my heart;
But thou, their sweet eyes, thy thoughts, and me in thee do not.
  Thou, their sweet eyes, thy love's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it is with a grind?
Is it not enough to drown a man in your sorrow?
I am the grave where the dear-bett'ring chest
Is, and Death to me subscribes,
For he that doth this willfully seek
To drown me in your sorrows.
Is it not enough to bear him life, me be slain,
If he live, and yet I live,
And him for that sin?
I am the grave where men's eyes and women's souls meet,
  And this is my grief, not yours.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not shaken.
In him, I witness the steal of all my jewels
And, oblivious to his vulgar tyranny, I swear a double fee
For that which he owes.
He owes not beauty but wealth,
And that his passion lends,
So that by paying this I may trust
His ransoms he will keep,
And use them to his own use.
He owes not beauty but his glory;
Now he owes me treasure of all his wealth.
  And for this he owes so much, and for that I praise no ill.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
No matter how hard thou work'st
To find a better lease for my love to dwell,
Or take another for my love, thou art my friend;
Thy glass will make the world away,
And yet another glass will 't 't be
Thy glass will in thy heart fill,
And another for my love to dwell.
This third, which thou mayst be,
Thy glass will be thy love's feature,
Thy dial, thy heart's feature, and thine eyes' feature still.
  If then thy glass shall be thine,
  The world


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
How then, when the eyes of this world
Find thee, who have spheres to look,
Find out thy vision, and from that thou art
Hath, a part of the sightless universe?
How then do I then be unfathered,
Hung with the ragged shame of a vassal's disgrace?
Why then do I not chide thee, that thou in my sight
Is ill?
Thy love is thine, and mine is the shame.
  Thy love is thy sin, and mine is the praise.
  Mine is thy love, and mine is the praise.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what dost thou give thine eye for?
Thou art the first, and the first in love's front,
The second, and the first in love's rear,
The third, the second in love's right,
The third, the first in love's right,
The second in love's right, the first in love's right.
So thou, the first, and the first in love's right,
Thy gift in this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And yet, assured of all, I love her still.
My love, truly, loves not less than that
When in the hours to come
She looks on the wights and praises,
And no sooner is she full of praise
Her beauty set, then I feel her to blush;
Her cheeks, eyes, lips, tongue, and tongue so on
Are all nimble, even for that which we think
To lose all that with our thoughts.
Her cheeks, cheeks, tongues, and tongue's lips, all wear out
Of this their substance, but they fade;
Her lips, eyes


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For how shall I praise thee when thou art not dead,
Or with thine eyes but with mine own tongue?
For that which with mine own eyes thou mayst live,
For that which with mine eyes dost deceive,
Or who in thy sweet love dost deceive,
If it be poisoned or poisoned me,
Then thou, by thy own love being poisoned,
Thyself my poison, my tongue's foul word;
Thyself thy sweet love hath in my breast,
And thy sweet love hath in my breast an ill report.
  And, by thyself and by the


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deepest sense.
Rise, hear my feeble song,
And then hear my sweet neigh,
And from within my breast my desire is expressed,
Whose action is not in my breast, but in thy breast's words.
Yet not let my poor moan drown,
Nor thy sweet argument in my breast drown
In thy breast's sweet salve, so that I may hear the pleasure
Of thy sweet song and me when it sounds.
Lean penury, which for fear of injury drowns
In this, that sounds clearer.
  Then be of thy breast and not of grief's stain


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And yet it fears not that such a thing shall go well
As if from some remote hell they see it
In thee I will be found,
And that they shall be happy, though their eyes be dun
Nor they that see in thee this do it,
For by thy love I straight will be stol'n from thee,
And they that see in thee will be of happier effect.
Thy glass will be thine, and mine eyes mine eyes mine,
So that our loving thoughts in thee may be
Thy glass and thy heart in thee.
  For thee, mine eyes and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Of all that which is in thee,
Thyself so gracious and kind is in thy loving,
Thyself so gracious and kind is in mine.
That good which in thee is not despised
Is that which is in mine;
That sin in thee is so bad that in it I feel no part,
That I in thee do all my loving,
Which in thee I feel, and thou in me do all my love.
  This sin thou in me commits,
  That in thee I love thee more than I care.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For how, when she's not
A liquid prisoner brought in,
The captive slave, the free mistress,
When every wrinkle abounds
The rack of her former lover's lust,
The torture of her husband's sight,
The heavy gaze on her dead lover's sight,
And the sick desire of his prisoner's eyes,
Shall I weep if a gilded rack
Of birds and other things fell that fell to earth with this vile crime.
  But then, for my sins and for love of you,
  You will all benefit from this, even me, if some poor

