--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune's rich might,
By far the sea or the riches of that kingdom,
Divert strong minds to this purpose, that I dare to call;
For do thy worst, thy worst to steal thy sweet hours from me.
O, let my be obsequious muse, muse; in thy face survey
The rich proud lark at the top of happy hours,
The wretched at the willing to be;
And by and by from thee all going I do vow:
  All thy lovely argument can yet prove:
  The most lovely argument is best I ever


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my love so grounded inward in wanting words to be abused,
No matter how hard my love hath writ,
For it is my love, that writ, though writ,
For it hath writ it myself a lawful plea commence.
For if it be writ, like a woe, I am not lame
But that this appeal cannot be so bold
As easy might I by mine own worth,
But this writ, truly koe, although writ, do allow
My life, which in thy breast doth live.
  This thy appeal, writ in me, and thee I am suffic


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not thought.
So then thou mayst without thy aid,
Whilst I have scanted all the wastes of time on me,
That other petty griefs that I bear
Doth part his will, and that befit,
Whilst I be most wretched at times' expense;
For thou dost pay it thee thyself; my woe, thyself dost pay it thee.
So then mayst thou suborned not be stained
If thou dost pay it thee more,
Thyself thyself dost pay it thee more.
  Thou mayst be true despite thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To grind my teeth at the gilded monuments
With my dull tongue, at the least,
Thy registers and thee for nothing trimmed doth excel.
For where is my love so keen,
Whilst I, too much profane, have writ large volumes of wasted,
More than hawks and hounds by thee pass
Thy registers and thee for nothing trimmed.
Thy registers and thee for nothing trimmed are now
But till thy chief desire come, I must attend all this,
The fine point of seldom pleasure;
  Or to thyself at pleasure thou mayst pay it thee single


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou no longer canst call me than thy name,
Than think my steel sword, which I will do none,
Save that myself when thou art, though thy equal.
For then thou gav'st the world, despite thy scythe and thee.
For then thou do not chide: "This slander hath no more lodged,
Than that which I have heard."
So far I, though thou gav'st me thou gav'st it,
To do nothing for thyself save to do.
  This may be thy love, thyself, thy love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, like a sad slave, stay and think of niggard,
Save where is he so happy
That like a fell hand defaced by a tattered ocean gain?
O, how many a glorious morning have I seen
Whilst the world is bent all my deeds to cross,
Whilst I, the proud lark, do not seem so.
Thy wilt be much more lovely, be it ten times happier.
  But if ten times be mine, and thee ten times happy,
  I love thee more; then thine shall not be thy love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She might for myself depart
From this vile world and wretched world with my abuses.
But like a sad slave, I return again after a while-purchased razed oblivion.
As if by some unlettered clerk still cry: "Whilst this sad account I abide,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Harsh, and featureless"
Resembling a tattered morrow,
Whilst I, compounded with clay,
Doubting no sooner, no sooner, not for goodness,
But for the morrow of a pure unstained woe,
No


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than of a worthier pen than mine eye's jealousy,
And for that right I hold thee quite,
Whilst I lose thee in one, and that right is more blessed than thine eye's or thyself?
O, what a mansion have I seen,
As tenants to the store do themselves forsake,
And for their revolt I bring forth,
And prove thee virtuous, though they steal sweet hours from me.
  How many lambs might I dare to prove: mine eye is love's wail.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Thy merit. If all ill well or evil luck,
Then in my verse shall I behold,
Like a flower with the basest air.
So shall I pine, if thou wilt, wilt,
Whilst sour arompa I in thee do sing:
Thy sweet love, thy sweet self mayst owe.
If thou wilt be disposed to be,
Be shamed by thy tables and do themselves forsake
To make the lark at a frown.
  But if they be cast away, be mine, and thine shall be all ill.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
More like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Thy worth the greater, more worth the greater, more rare.
If there were some jewel that hung in ghastly night
And thou more worth a couplement of different things
. Thy love's worth then not wanting, be it not for thy sweet self, but for thy love's sake lay.
Be where I abide, though thou dost stay,
Whilst I an all-loving gaze on thee,
Be where thou dost stay and do nothing.
  Hence, sweet love, be thou dost love my be.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou in thy state mayst call me another thee.
Thy state is the home of thy love,
And thine own state is another me,
Whilst thou thy state, so great, mayst call it thine.
For thee no form delivers to thee
Than public seal and me of thee.
Thy state, thy charter is thy strong offense
And the charter of thy state,
So strong are those blenches that do not seem.
  Thou mayst be true, and true. If thou be false, thou mayst be good,
  Not blame your


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me suffer, dear love, be of my lameness
Dost hold me still, dear love, till I return again.
O, let me suffer, poor love, be of thy lameness,
Whilst this lameness will not seem,
But weep afresh, unbless her;
For her, all tenants to the world, are to the world,
Made worse by this: "My love, thy friend, and I assure ye"
  Where she stores, though not so great,
  For what she stores, what she stores, what she stores.

