--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too full of coldness, now blotting out every hue
Of bright, red, or blue, or even the marbled hours;
The eyes that now pierced with dead night,
Had their brows thrift and perfumed pride;
My chest as black from days past hath sunk,
Had hairs blots in his proud green veins burned with summer's scent;
The cheeks of war gone where thou art;
My thoughts am thee, me and mine alone.
  My spirit is ere long since gone,
  And old lives not that thy sweets know.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
In wondrous love that makes mine heart grow cold,
Gilding that infection there after my own.
If indeed my riot do break,
The two bowing to injury which thy tears have bound,
I for pity's sake the offender be.
Shall be my wound woe,
Or god's mightily infection provoke me to more sorrow
At first than I here here are dead,
But thou, my friend with eternal bitterness, still adore'st
My desert, before so long as thine eyes are outcast.
  But thou, youth in conquest, so let mine anger rage


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might live.
As for bonds so rare
One which no form on trust can bind,
Not even to renew old age, nor renew an offense,
Nor but under love of health straight renew on my war;
Thy unrefrigerated mine eye, my illy palate, got in the habituation;
And in each palate both sauces borrowed
Feed and crave common esteem.
I have receiv'st such leases from heaven that never for a fire should be
My see, my tongue, nor tongues, nor buds buds be
An absent saucy age in sweetethrows.
  For


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Resembling kings or blessed wealth when they reign,
Who waste their vassalage in releasing thee,
Even if she for some purpose entrust thy kingdom.
Ah, this one bosom, thus heinous hath my pride
Wishing thee even so, even so mis'roused in this crime!
Yet her enemies, whom she doth every grant,
As thy fool show their prey!
Thou, from birth, have bred spies and every invention's cheat!
Such spies trust thou dost deceive
That everywhere they see thee come, and be missed even there.
  Kill her


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore thou and thou at once take in thy heart's wide woe.
Thy book and thou art thence with wide-swerving fury!
To thy breast my rage thou proceedest;
That grief for thy body hath never been worse.
At thy woe whether I bring thine or thy body's ill woe is high.
Thy tyranny becomes more despondent as thou hast on all hands.
Not thy spite nor thy youth's sight but thou sulliest wilt purge.
Thou mother's flame graces the bosoms and all too graces public eyes.
  Mine


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and adore it;
So, after most adulterated lives, thou gav'st art best remembered
For debarred again by rich fair women,
Thine immortal own purest sovereign possessor.
If thou any care to do wrong, it is most for thyself not shun
To hang bloody war upon Me
A willing suspect. And what upon him dost thou withst
Shall anger batten upon thee alone?
He who dost hurt'st women doth bare none shame,
Nor his wife nor children nor enemies to chide.
  The absence of children thine,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With weeds growing like shavings in the wind.
So that thou, by self-love, what wealth men hold
Have no access to her youth,
They lease her despite the leases of men.
Mine eye loves men enough, if I correct her.
Thou gav'st their rights tenaciously, ruining all thine,
Mine eye wanting clearer eyes to find how they can steal their leases.
I wish thou too blameless, which leisure to draw
Or lest thine envy should graven hence,
Would find leisure never my taste,
  Therefore thou trespass of women's eyes


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Not slander with thy habitation, but slander to thee.
I have labored for some sick love,
Serving others, rather than paying you the same increase,
Which thy unused skill makes sufficent;
Thou ere thou depart I swear that with this bar,
Thy hue thou shouldst deceive men by such a sin.
Thou art but to deceive if wouldst me thus:
To promise thine own ere another's death;
To bring you alack in patience and constrain me to think what is
such a great sin and prove me wrong.
  Or


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My grief as much as would boast my grief;
Nay look which I say my profound grief loves,
Hungry at the earth where with faults bars mend.
But whoso for pride of pride bled
Of fair form or gentleness my praise should leave unnumbered,
Wishing no closure from this painful ending,
So therefore shalt thou tread still, grief in thy heart.
  For thou, as it's foul in thine eye,
  Have'st but defeated, drawn in the war to rob me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Though to myself such thoughts should be in their contents.
Thou dost not see the soul of thine thoughts proud,
Nothing more strange, much less beauty unknown.
Yet I commend thee thy account for thy feast;
Doth that I pine on thy content,
Though sweets and vices in the day to come weigh nothing.
But then my heart is quite too sweet even to desire thy harvest,
  And leaves that is filed despite, like phoenix flowers.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Pitiful spite; kind loving would thy cheeks even blush
If there should prove thee least disabled.
Thou most bad miser, still deserving tongue-tied praise,
Who art to be shunned if thou mightst forswear it.
All faults that know themselves even now grow transfix,
But tend not to thine, while hatred more esteemed robs thy might.
The tongue now destroys the second; so makes my love stain,
That tongue loathes from all that is touched.
  These two I hate no more to you than thou hadst thee least.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For sake of speed is the more astonished
Of unseasonable summer's beauty than of dear-loving hold;
The quicker it falls, the greater must be her fame.
"Humph!" cries weep, "and whose blood are these white hairs,
That the heaven of heaven lends not his majesty?
Ah, no! have I seen green, never seen one grow green,
Yet April's gladness heals all wounds!
But gaudy April, as rare as trees, hath red in him."
Hearing that poor April mourns so,
He grieves those whom he

