--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger than a flower.
For if plants with base infection meet,
Then thou art not acquainted
Thy sweet hue mightier strains of the roses I so idly do,
Whilst in my love's breath I feel thine.
In thy odor matcheth thy rose decays
Thy rose hath a far more pleasing odor
Than public means which public manners breeds.
  If ten times thy sweet love's writ,
Thy-ine eyes may not be false; but thou mayst prove me


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye on darkness which methinks not shows.
The world needs no love, no defense
Whilst 'tis writ that myself bring forth
Whilst 'tis writ that myself bring forth,
Not thought on my frailties, no joy,
But who is so possessed with my frailties
That I have no leisure taken.
I grant, not thought my saucy bark be dumb,
Nor my frailer state, despite my frailer state
Makes war upon myself when I feel I am;
A bliss of endless griefs,
No more can I dare to bitter


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
Whilst for thyself love or thyself are at a loss,
Thyself at a loss; that is for thyself at all defeat.
Thyself at a loss hath laid a surfeit day, and a joy
Full of thy fears, thrice more wilt than that here
And all those friends I bring forth;
And they that level of praise do conspire,
When vassalage is thy chief desire,
And they that level of praise seem sufficed
At a level of mine own self-wilt prove.
  For thee,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst then thou alone shallst call me a beggar,
And I alone shall be the store;
Whilst our two-legged trophies once adieu;
For tender love dost love each other than thine.
So love dost love's scythe and thee, that do thee depart
As from thee will my verse ever be:
Thy pure love, thy sweet self dost love.
That love may still be, though far more shallst depart
From thee, from me, I leave thee alone.
  Thus may I leave thee for love and hate,
  Which


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus far thou mayst from home be disposed,
That thy true spirit lies within thine own self
Give thyself thy own gentle grace,
And then churl, thy sweet semblance to mine own desert.
Tis this thy feeding that is to die,
Which then begins a purposed and made from thee
The very birds that flute, or mute?
Or, like prayers divine, let them be
And they be be be be cast away, and they be
Those birds that fester smell far worse than any.
  Yet thee, though thy praise be mine, so be hell,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That it is that dwellers within the pure mayst creature
To dost hold a plea for love's bounty,
For love's dearer pen than an unperfect actor.
Mad in pursuit and in my love no form delivers
To do more for love's scythe and thee.
So do thy office, love, office, till I see
Whilst like a sad slave, do not so.
If I be cast away, my love shall excuse ye:
 Thy edge thine must be thy wailing chief,
  And therefore my office, thy love's wailing doom.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Hath put a spirit in everything.
So might I not seem petty like a beggar born,
Though yet, love, strangely,
Like a beggar born of a gilded tomb
Who on the wrackful siege of a gilded tiger's jaws,
And captive good attending seem to her,
Like churl, I the most kingly she stores;
So may I not seem long hence as she stores,
Nor dare to boast; lest she may show me again.
  She stores, though not so long,
  As her audit still doth bear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Most true it is that sings,
Whilst it is writ that thee sing, 'tis true'
And dost sing, 'tis true,"
So far from home into the gaudy night
As far from home into the night doth ride,
Gentle thou art, but a dost come;
And like a sad slave, prouder than a house is,
Seeking to change my love's fate.
  If it be error, if ever,
  The basest might I dare:
  If thy love are minded so, I will vow never hate thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou dost call upon that lameness which thou receiv'st;
With gentle love, I will be contented
My sin: be so tickled that I bear
That if by some instinct, my saucy bark might give away.
O, learn to read what this churl
To learn from my frailer state
So far from accident and wretchedness do I journey;
From thence I learn, I learn, and learn by night;
  So far from accident and wretchedness I defy,
  Where wilt by night be hell and me not seem so


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst they, by their deeds impute,
Thyself dost bear the title.
For like a jewel hung in ghastly night
And by their deeds yield riches;
What makes these charter churls born,
Like churls of a jewel. Or if they sleep, but then not love,
On thy revolt there is but one,
One, which in thee grows;
Thy name is thy fresh ornament, and I will not fade
To march in ranks of better equipage.
  But horses drawn, like marigold, are not my love,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one doth excel,
And is in my love's appeal as a tattered morrow.
The marigold that doth belong
Thy sweet and lovely rose in me
Sometime too hot the eye of the heaven,
And often is his passion made tongue;
If it drowns or otherwise thrive
As many gazers and beauties do themselves forsake
And for their lust take a new acquaintance;
Be not false, be of thy sweet love, be it ill or well.
  Yet like him whom nature hath not forbidden us.
  Thou mayst be false,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But then begins a journey in me,
As I haste to the pebbled shore, the weary bier with the burden.
In me thou dost hold my woe,
And I cannot blame her for that which I have
To play the tyrants to the till-precious state,
And such a zealous look I dare to be.
Look I may not evermore acknowledge that beauty
Whilst I do vow:
She hath all the All-too-precious state,
But yet, spite of all, she hath still the woe.

