--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my breast the beauty of thy face.
But thou, whom I love, do not love my breast,
Nor my breast the beauty of thy face.
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my breast the beauty of thy face.
Yet thou, whom I love, do not love my breast,
Nor my breast the beauty of thy face.
  Thy eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
  Have put on black, and loving mourners be.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am so strong in my grief,
That I do not moan, nor do I wail
But that I am so strong in my grief,
That I am so strong in my grief's love,
That I do not weep so much
As I do in the face of my grief's loss,
Nor do I wail, nor do I wail in the face of my grief's gain.
  For my grief is so deep that I am so sad,
  That I do not wail nor wail nor wail nor wail nor wail nor wail nor wail nor


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
Now, then, let me be true,
That thou mayst be my treasure,
For thou art mine own treasure, and I am not thy debt.
Thy love is the only thing that doth hold me in trust,
That doth hold me in trust,
And that thou mayst be my slave,
For thou art my friend and I am thy slave.
  Yet, to thy aid, I do strive,
  To make thee my slave,
  And to my help I do strive,
  To make thee my friend and I be my slave.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art so far removed from me that I should have
Thy wish to know what it is that thou desirest not.
If thou desirest, thou mayst have my love,
And that I would be the first to call upon thee
To send a salutation to thy sweet self.
Thou art so far removed from me, that I should have thee
If I were dead, or if thou were alive,
That I should send a salutation to thee,
  And that I should be buried with thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the first in heaven to leave the earth,
And, if thou were not so blessed,
My body would be crowned with heaven's grace.
But thou art not so blessed,
For heaven's grace hath no respect;
Thou art my mother's child, and thy son's heir.
Therefore thou art not so blessed,
For heaven's grace hath no respect.
  Thou art the first in the earth to depart,
  And, if thou were not so blessed,
  My body would be crowned with heaven's grace.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost see the beauty of thine eye.
But thou dost not see the beauty of thine eye
Where thou art the fairest, or the fairest.
For behold, in thy sight the stars are made,
And thy beauty doth lie,
And thy beauty doth lie in thy sight.
Look, thou dost see the stars but not in thy sight.
Look, thou dost see them but not in thy sight.
  Thou dost see them but not in thy sight.
  For thou art the fairest in thy sight,
  And thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some counterfeit of the true spirit.
But, for my love, truth is not but a miracle,
For it is false that she doth lie,
And that she might think me some untutored youth.
For I love her dearly, and she is false so,
That I may believe her, and believe her not.
  But, for my love, truth is not but a miracle,
  For it is false that she doth lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have no heart but thy love,
And thy love's purpose is to hurt.
But that thy love is not so strong as thou see,
Thou art so strongly in love's power
That I, being strong, do shake thy hand,
And that thou dost steal thy heart's sweet pleasure.
O, be not so kind, my love;
Thy love hath no love but that which it finds.
For thy love is not so strong that I will break it,
Nor thy love that I will break it,
Nor thy love that I will break it,
Nor thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so much grief.
O, lest my sweet love should say too much,
For I am so ill-prepared,
That thou shouldst seem so kind as to leave me alone.
For thy sake do not leave me in need
Nor so much as my poor thoughts should think
That I should be so cruel as to leave thee alone.
Thou art so kind as to me so despised,
That I should be so kind as to leave thee alone.
  But thou, so kind, do not leave me alone,
  For I am so kind and so kind
  That thou mightst


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that love is not despised so much as thou,
For thou thy glass and thy love's sweet smell
Make my heart sing hymns to hymns,
And thou, my love, art my all-loving muse.
Thy use is not so great, my heart being so kind
As thou thy glass, thy love's sweet smell,
Which, being sweet, touches my heart's heart's heart's content.
  But thy love's sweet smell is my all-loving muse.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own true love, thy own true love,
Thy own true love's shadow, and thy own true love's shadow's shadow;
For thy true love is thine, and thy true love's shadow's shadow's shadow.
Thy love is thy own, and thy true love's shadow's shadow's shadow's shadow's shadow.
For thy true love is thy shadow, and thy true love's shadow's shadow's shadow.
  But thy shadow is thy shadow, and thy true love's shadow's shadow's shadow.
  And thou art my shadow, and my love is thy shadow


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The beauty of this accident is so clear,
That my love cannot but be crowned.
For, in my love, life is the most precious thing,
And, if life be short, it is long,
And, like a miser, it is despised.
The time is therefore more precious to me now than it was when I first set foot.
O, be not so kind to me! For I am so beloved of you,
That I do not forsake you, though you be gone.
  But be not so kind to me, that I do forsake you.
  Love

