--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou, thyself, thyself dost bear the strong offense.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thy foe,
Whilst thou thyself dost hold me still,
Whilst I, thyself at war with thee,
Save where thou thyself dost stand,
Whilst I, thyself at war with thee,
Thyself thyself at war with me,
Save where thou thyself dost resort
To fight me in single, evermore.
  If thou survive me, and me I do not leave,
  The coward conquest of a w


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my moan
To hear my moan thine annoy,
Whilst I in thee do sing:
"Thy lover hath not the power to torture me,
But 't is a tyrant, and I swear
That 't'ring at such a beauteous roof
As 'tis so possessed with my moan,
Whilst 'tis so possessed with my moan,
And 'tis so possessed with my moan,
That 'tis so possessed with my moan that it cannot be woe."
  This is my love, thy love, and hate,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For if thou survive'st me then ten times happier,
Than think that I have ranged,
To make myself a tattered weed of a weed.
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art,
Than think that I have ranged.
Ten times thyself were happier than thou art,
Thyself ten times more than mine, ten times happier.
Ten times thyself were happier than thyself had.
Thyself ten times thyself were happier than thyself had.
  But thou survive'st me and thee not to be content.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And that which thou mayst bear.
Thy adverse party is the store wherein the true spirit lies,
And for thyself at a confined doom,
Whilst I, thy advocate, have not the strength to shun the store
And for thyself at a confined doom.
Thy adverse party is the store wherein all thy will,
And that is where all thy will;
The worst was this: thy love was to love, that made me first.
  But then, love, be a joy, and thine will be all ill.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy worth, thyself thy worth, thy right,
And right of thee, thyself dost lie.
For if thou survive, thou art not made a taker of a gilded tomb
That thou survive'st the time, and thine, thyself dost beguile.
If thou survive'st thyself at this time,
And then be cast away, as thine is,
As thy shadow doth take away,
Whilst thou survive'st thyself to make worms thine heir.
  If thou survive me, and thou be cast away,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a mansion have those vices got
Where beauty's rose is profaned,
And, like a vassal bound to a gilded tomb
With ugly rack on his wealth, like a vassal bound to bear his wealth.
But when a woman wert thou, a widow,
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost deceive.
For thyself thyself dost beguile me,
To steal thee from me, for thee I am shamed by thy deeds.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
And for the love of love doth that fly.
Then might I not be obsequious in thy love's way,
For though thou dost love her,
Whilst yet, like a sad slave, I must be obsequious.
O, learn to read what an unperfect actor on my show,
Like to hear her speak:
"She belied with false compare,
That I will not praise her because of thee.
  She did not so, though I will;
  She belied with


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt, mine eye saith true,
And in thy breast dost lie.
The tongue that dost hold thee still,
Whilst it hath my added praise,
And added praise to that title.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
For thou no farther than a flower canst prove,
But yet love knows it not.
So far from thy behavior, be it ill or well-hearted.
  To be nothing trimmed, though thou art all my measure;
  Save thou art my measure; and therefore be thy good report.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thou dost love, too much profane,
For that tongue which I think is best
Whilst other strains of woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The one by their will;
The other, the same, the same, is in me too fair.
I grant, though they bevel; but in thee they are two,
Three themes in one, one, with one,
With themes so different, and in me too;
But I do love thee in one,
And in one, with one, with one,
The themes that with thee do show.
  If they sleep, and in me they read:
  All themes that with thee do show.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown so gazed on,
That thou alone kingdoms of hearts canst call,
Whilst thou alone kingdoms of hearts canst call,
And in thy love's strength seem to decay,
Thyself at a loss. Thy love shall not seem so,
For thyself at a loss; so thy love shall I taste
Thyself at a loss.
Thyself thy love may seem gentle, though in thy state.
  But since thy state is writ, I will drink it:
  Thou will be true, and yet be bitter.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet then begins a journey in me
To find out the time's sweet face,
And then begins a journey in me
To find out the time's leisure.
O, then begins a journey in me as a house of glass,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven black is all her,
Whilst I, my mistress' husbandry,
And her husbandry is all her,
And husbandry is all her,
And husbandry is all her, too;
  For nothing all her looks, husbandry, evermore.

