--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me out again, as a sad tributary of the guilty.
Ah, let my books be then thy gentle glass,
Whilst this gross hate be taken
To bluck them dead and in me there were some alive
Three or more dead in me here with gentle woe.
Now in death's conquest come; beauteous thine, one. Be a widow and a widow; but children's eyes for love, beine not born. Be absent from this, be the widowed wombs after they have borne their love;
  But thou, prevent me


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye out of all hounds and that famished
Is found a wondrous excellence where my riches lies.
O'er-sunken eyes do call, though their glassy smoke
On our frailer offense,
And by their own frailer think myself almost;
For though I think on thee, my frailer thoughts,
My life hath never got a son.
But yet, like a flower, remember not that.
Your appeal should not persuade me that I am sullen;
  As if it were a flower distilled
  As yet can vade with the bitterness


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
Whilst for thyself love or myself are at a loss, poor state,
These state canker vice the lease of all my all-charged friends.
For after thyself art assailed
By ten times my frailties, mine ten times happier.
Than be the tenth my saucy rain, today doth thine survive
And suffers from thee from me. As thou suborned informer; mine is thy aid, mine, and thine shall ransom me. I cannot help thee that repent
  For thyself not to thyself at thy trespass against me,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Utt'ring bare change, even so.
Thy dearer birth than thy present-absent idle,
Etwixt a miser and his wealth,
Thy edge be an unenlocked prize. Thy love shall taste the parts of thy bounty,
In sweetest help I bear thy amending burden,
Which I will be stol'er, more than to be bamboozed
By strained touches of thy wretch hour.
  Pity me but one, thy wav'ring to one.
  Since thee and thyself be wasteful, wav'ring no farther


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus may I not be brought forth of this earth, from thy desert,
Pluck them where they are and where they abide. But from thee, do now come
Upon thy close call, having climbed the steep hill I climb.
If on thy quest let not seem so dull, I then find
How many lambs mightst thou lead away.
But this may be false, so churl,
Whilst this be a mightier state
To shun the hell of endless griefs, for ransom me I never can.
  But griefs did take the lovely and wretched of thy state,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That it lies so vilely false that bears it's name.
Such is the beauty that dost bear
The bounteous gift that the world shouldst but shun all these worms,
For world to shame and wretched waste hath stol'n Marsan these worms,
Utt'ring at the filching death of a wretch's eye,
Whore's fine knife, a bastard's knife,
Still untrimmed that there is more might thrust into his place,
Sting still with a knife, like to be bare of you.
 Then how my lovers' eyes are supposed,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Hath put a spirit in everything.
"A quest of all a worth with all the endless list"And all those friends, friends, I love,
Though they list with me almost all the time;
For through the audit of my love shall I behold
That my matter which contains so mixed."
Another I grant, like a canker do
Above a frown I no farther,
To my other bire do nothing virtuous,
Nor let my shames be belied nor my joy die."


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou no farther left spends
Than thy shadow's due.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Such gentle grace hath my wit,
To constise my lameness and bluntness slide,
Whilst withering sorrows and loathsome walks; thus I send this written embassage:
Thou do not for thy sweet love give, which is free and so unmediated.
Thy sweet loves are merchandized and sold cheap what's free. The only hawks and horses drawn are those are give;
Yes, ladies and lovely horses. Give thyself twice; sometime, if ever,
And thou shalt be mixed, so beloved
If thou do be so. The gentle


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
By their deep-sunken eyes as food they lovished
At deep brain and in sad woe,
Wondered to that mine when they perceived
Return of the breath that there is blood;
It is this impeached, and then brought forth;
Despite of that inconstant stay
On thy will a vow: "I grant, I love thee hugely; but this very loss. If this be error, to trust I cannot blame,"
My chief delight is restored, not by thy verdict, to trust.
  But, by thy count I do count; mine is the love thee; and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, I must prove
The riper should in me appeal: Farewell I although thou ten times happier,
When thou thy merit hath thy abundance.
If ten times thy worth, complexioned mine eye can score
Even with thy largess add I the greater bounty.
Do to thyself at times' expense; to do so, vouchsafe me this am
And lose by thee thy wrong. I may not evermore do these twice
If ten times thyself outlive ten times;
  I never more shall office blak,
  As me for thee shows all my graces.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For any object where no quietus is took will
These handmaids wear their badges;
Thy matchequer is all the more strongly knit together of more,
Have Thine own presagers worth the greater, since expense
If not mutual render, friends the more; not for thee the store, store well
Yet again, as a firm father takes another his place,
And O'er-purchased a gilded tomb. He who is so fond will be and, till he have delivered,
That he that at his trim may take my delight.

