--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in their spite I lose all hope of peace.
O, why should I not say that thy beauty doth lie,
When in thy breast I lose all hope of love?
O, no, that thou art the fairest and most beloved of me,
Thy beauty dost rob thy heart of all hope of love.
O, why shouldst thou love'st I so much,
That in thy breast I be beguiled with love's delight?
  Thy beauty dost rob thy heart of all hope of love.
  If that my love were so, why shouldst thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I must be wracked with grief,
Or at least with the grief that follows
When I see my dear friend, with whom I share so dear,
Gainst my love's ransom.
O, how sad my dear friend's heart
Doth make me weep when I see him,
Or, worse, when I see him with you,
Whose woe to my grief is this:
"I have no friend to weep for,
Nor do I mourn that my friend's death touches me."
  But that my friend's heart
  Makes me weep that my friend's death


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
The true treasure of thy will.
The truth is, thou art my friend,
And that thou art so dost steal thy dear time,
And that I am not so kind to thee,
That thou mightst be a thief in my love.
I am, therefore, thy friend,
And thou, my friend, hath a treasure of my love.
Thy friend is thy bait, and thou bait'st me.
  For thou art my bait, my friend,
  And that I am so dost steal thy time.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And that in thee this malady shall grow.
Thou art more than thy worth's ransom,
And yet thou shalt be a murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the fairest of all the fair,
The only true and true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,
The only true, the only true,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when thou beholdest it dost lie,
They view not beauty but that which thou beholdest.
So thou, to thyself thy beauty's disgrace,
Shall be seen and despised everywhere,
But in their eyes thou beholdest the world's fair,
And in their eyes the true world's fair.
  Yet thou art not so deceived,
  For thou art the fairest of all the fairs.
  But be thou deceived, love, and they will believe
  That thou art so.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that I might in my life be crowned with beauty's
And by fortune's grace make fortune's most rich.
But, all this, nothing is more true than that I love you;
I am so bold to say that love is false,
That I love not more than the best I know,
Nor can I more praise you than a rich woman doth boast.
  You have made me an age of beauty's proud,
  And now I swear by a goddess that I love you.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy use of thine eye hath not in my heart any more
Than that which thou dost curse.
For thou, my love, dost abuse my life,
And do so, like a madman,
To poison my life with my life's poison.
Yet that, though thy use be less,
Than ill use, still I shall live,
And live again in thy spite.
  If that my life be poisoned,
  Mine is thy life, and thy life mine.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief.
Thou art so far from being obsequious
As to confound my grief, yet thou art so far from me
That I am so vexed that I will break
The most sacred vow of love, and, with all my might,
Thy most sacred love shall be remembered.
Thou art so far from being obsequious
As to confound my grief, yet thou art so far
From me that I am so vexed that I will break
The most sacred vow of love,
And, with all my might, I will be remembered.
  But this is


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that, being absent from thee, I scorn them with my wit.
For they that I adore, I have no fear of losing sight.
Thou art my sweet love, my love, and thy largess.
Thou art my child, my child, and my love's delight.
Thou art my child's woe, my child's woe.
I love thee so much that, being absent from thee,
My love's dear friend, takes away my love's strength.
  But thou art my child, my child's woe,
  And I will not take away


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own true love, which is so dear to thee,
Shall love but in thy state,
And then with thy love's envy
The world will see thee in thy beauty,
For thou, the world's most admired beauty,
Shall in thy state hate and hate me.
Thy state, that is, all things, is my shame,
Thy state is thy love, and thy love is hate.
  Yet thy love is such that it can never hate me,
  For it is thy love that doth hate me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For I, too, am a warrior's sport,
A swift horseman to the right and left,
Roughing his thrusts and thrusting his horse with speed.
But when my rider doth come,
A musketeer's swift-footed foe is to his right
And thrusts his musket with swift speed,
Making him a long-killed bait.
O, be kind, my love; be kind to me too.
  For love's fair eyes and fair mouths are alike.
  O, if any one doth wrong, he is my friend.

