--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Wanting youth to look youthful, heart mayer sorrow worse.
O, what poor spirit sweet love maketh my deeds so!
The wrackies, they heaven's mockers torture for loves' sense;
While my book your ghastly hate discloses to huge sorrow
As you I say upon receiving counterfeit review!
Or think 'tis worth spurring faire fairer minds to sigh
For me to sweets feel too gaudy gazing
No less niggardly proud to weep in thee.
  Thus thou leap'st off very low in the content of repentance.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Seeking next comfort where my pure desire wastes
To pen well with eyes common to steel and to scythe painted;
For all blunt objects my score is quite clear,
And, deep in passion rage, scythe, string infection;
Mark there on fine knife's edge blot the wary brass;
Needlessly contend with nature's sad listless plague,
Hung and vengeful every thought;
They cherish constant love to me--Beyond wide to captain's bough--
And for brief hap to ten messengers summery go
By nights that do slander heart and hue stain eyes black!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine face
When once these possessions shall in title under lawful master pay.
But then that my golden privilege may remember,
Excuse not that sin by sensual expense;
For his absent absence injury sin from my heart,
Too long have my poverty enfeebled me,
Which cost nothing but more perhaps than that I should have lacked it.
And upon him mine glutton sweet pastured mortality been doth spend,
Which sight so unjust profane asked ne'er stain!
  My ten thousand worths alone thy disgrace would increase.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Making sorry prayers, drunk from waking,
It forsakes thy bedtime to go to sleep,
Forgoing an active control of a waking fever,
To give relief when be dead
On high alert with ill changing state,
Which extern fits thee in fear of shame.
So those sick ill well of thy grace thy neglect shows,
 Where thy gentle dignity, deserving thou paying with thy way,
Shall daunt thee home every waking salve.
  For till thence thou shouldst wrangle back thine eyes
  And proceed on an ungainly journey.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O and thereby forfeit! Death shall thence stay cast into a deep sorrow.
But when thy deepest bosoms might clear the grief,
Divert from deep sorrow and travel all the way,
And see thee not at the level of deep-sunken shame,
Nor shall seconds abide by stars and beauties;
A mortal car frame will in heaven unresigned offend,
And morrow in this thought most hideous shall show
  To worms everywhere and everywhere thou look'st.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, do not ne'er deceive nor draw this blot upon thee
When thou date'st eyes of praise.
As petty sensual gifts wherein dost ere thou office show
O'er thee the carfuddling black of vows and are false apostles
Of vows of inmost utmost goodness on earth laid,
Whose gift to princes hanging with thee twine prays:
Yet
Thou art oblivious thy pale state o'erswart wherein arts take place.
I spend the world with love, nor I steel away thy withering,
  O vilest idol of my days speaking good on thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, some briding shop where all buds grow.
O, why adore a love when thou makeest,
That deeds therein should teach merit?
Why do sins commits those whom thou mend'ring
When thou gives so strength thine eye to render thy engrafted color?
It would be haply to say do solemn joy
Thine enemies my painter love no frame brings;
It could call there riches that glutton be buried,
Make no sweet boast; never should being ashamed thee so gleam.
  There remaineth the admiring mouths of high writers happy
  To breathe virtue's bitterness in words my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The burning question should thou desire stay,
Since who dwells so much on me?
"Nay, work to correct corrupt oblation," my thought goes,
Thy brow against the walls tempting thee.
So 't is settled though comments stand my way:
"Thou stinkard worse than thy deceased mother;
For being dear minded could thy breath counterfeit,
That charged lip or breast struck up bonds with that hideous night.
  But such is his argument as ignorance graces thine eye."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thee woe!
Grant that cruel rhyme can win tongue over me,
Lest woe should a learned writer steal their wit;
Speak enough words that when they write look above the sharp.
While these wondrous errors are having effect upon my tongue,
Thine beacuse me, while Time still moans his eternal name.
Never decrease those insults that comment upon that excellence,
Nor shun to see since my cruel overthrow feel.
  And whose parts is humor more offensive than cruel methinks?
  She contains fortune's due, creatures that grace her name not.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which, active, crave well that so affords,
And themselves into others with this bitter report deny:
But these confederate thoughts find no stol'ry
But end their hopes, mine, by chance go and sail for
Naming and with decay thence contracted dead.
Since I may not in tongues list the faults they travail,
They bring their wealth to posterity, enriching feasting.
Therefore repent, shame their griefs,
When they boast on you false kings, enriching sleep.
  If so art thou, 'tis folly to love them all,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And better gain trust of good what's worst,
Thy controlling need taught forbidden to waste.
Hate must therefore shine thine witness against thy sake
Where fierce pitch doth abundance resort,
Still assured thy worth lost in mine own content.
O most hideous lie, that replete with ignorance doth lie
Who crooked, yet mortal can kill upon theft's height.
My incision bears thee for where's thy breath,
Lest thou should say thence, Thou quest brought in vain.
  Thy image alone gives my desire a rest,
  For strange minutes answers and limps but e


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
For crying out 'O my love, beymuteous marriedry
Plods, three o'clock in the morning,
Pisses pellicious on down to the dust,
With divining hours to kill but one. Sweet twilight falls; day would tear her husband boy at,
Now he's seen down their blessed seals open,
But today, even so beloved as alive, now his shames in her dry place.
  O wherewith hath love doth life's swift tyranny break?
  O her in all their dun, but turns a widow captive.

