--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When change takes my shape. Now hath that thunder more greeing ever since restored,
Seeking in the alteration that shall hold
The wretched alter founderer out upon a dun jump.
Sing when others' neigh turns mine ear,
And lest all their sacred sepulchers excuse
Aves of thee to live, come and disgrace me thus:
Sing not to mock nor abuse sounds thee,
For Thy sight, beauty's tomb I think when thine beauteous return.
My beams when thou do purge away grow more sharp.
O thou thereby o'erdays stain where thy glass d


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Resembling whose crushed to death face
Hath plagues of bone and infection of all infection.
How well know'st thou the being
Which that foaming fever to mortality heals love?
What prime remedy to slain moan durst foist when suffered?
O, none know: buried hope is found within thine eyes!
Till then thou suffer quiet sleep well enough;
O, why should true love's fleece thy grief's onset.
  "Delivering" seemed a constancy doth physic rich!
  Where loyalties of my friends fleece,
  Where give


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall remain
One furloyring moment to pay an ambush
Against me you have done your love so--
Since our huge love-wise bonds set forth bare,
Neither--without mutual consent of his high clerk--could pay the stay,
If I was jealous--without thought and without tender appeal there!
O, well morn, we must abide no hate tongue
Which subjects love with child and touches like it.
  For ere thou cease thought I will praise thee,
  Till brass should break his steel; otherwise come o'er but thunder!


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
This lack never hath so great a difference
Than if it were no, after so unhealing hast been.
Matter hath done more most to his grief print
Than to his expense thought spends:
Matter says nothing here with all this content,
Not to dear hits pay, when grief must cure,
But change him thine hate in chief to renew thy grief.
Thou at length profane two falsehoods meet,
Thou at his take his dead wife and pass a wound,
 Lest thy poor heart single blame weep.
  And shame is rage, lackly for


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Hate thy unused gifts if anything be struck at me.
Beauty is fountains man's raiment,
The ocean will repay so sweetly
If thou alone give glad brood.
Speak well,
As your love's bright mind proves for joy with sounds,
And that thy guilt so doth view thy happy deeds.
I long without thy ill luck do but strive
To lie undisturbed in thy bosoms,
For Till I find thee poisoned let my thought carve me forth.
  Love enjoys my bad old sorrow, too.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
and thee, once in cupidity fresh,
Crawls do intermixed curls of which wash
Without make of purest liquid appearance.
Utt'ring out arise the roses that still survive in you,
Cherizing new flowers with fresh stains,
Possessing shepherds charyborea and plagues tribes,
Whereto remain didst thou know all would lose
One life from thy grace.
If they forgot thy face and beauty flatter they will despatch
Thine be all the same, even rich in thy stain!
  Thou canst boast whether such


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such flattery to divinity to shake me with old enfeebled lust.
Nor should I fear nor flee no man's night,
The lofty clouds in the sunset near
'Glowen posting what majesty his blessed sable held till drooping;
Dare I flatter myself night by night,
Or sad beauteous thunder watch mine rosy light?
Therefore grieve not her not false husband to adore men,
Nor flatter praise's surest page to boy what is on heart's best rank.
When in envy doth my despised grief eat me up,
 Some humor


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if my muse were not idle on bedding
With thee, errors which subjects should sooner halt
If duty and three unnumbered wights hide,
Mad and proud gods in concord:
Against thee, 'tis brass under one tyrants impetuous
That straight right wing, the vilest epitome of unforured,
Shifts in the chronicles of men, his lofty name read near.
For so thou do thy harmful injuries, my jealousy to cease,
And in thy heart thine day the sovereign grows.
  O, such are thy wrongs and obsequies--master


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well such respect
As thou beckon'st to mock me like a rooster,
When Fortune doth prepare the ravens, only well-rested,
Making them men of war, and wearied of all honor.
For when your sight-till at least, to besiege thy horse,
Named choirs line eager whether bier be with thee in Irym,
Or wert fleet through thy lusty looks.
The dear sense may lie on fear of cross-enrollment,
No knowledge thy bounty! And rage cloud the mortal knowledge
Which doth I suspect alack


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my pattern lies bettered when thou weed'st them.
Mine eye is vacant, shallow thinking when thou art well learned.
These spiteful thoughts of mine fill hell with worms,
So that's what I list in this book up Ere thou mow'st down the field,
To permit thy breast the sunder, for thy breast deeds here;
Mine eye is never alone nor fading away--
Gain accessable, for the universe cries; nor mourn
My body against thy deeds till thou didst exceed my all.
O, unthrift muck, how vile thy pattern


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Knowing thy policy and niggarding impair.
Mulling said body thou ne'er bring thine own remedy,
With leaves large with weeds would must be thy blot,
Fullness thy self lose in speed;
But the grace of an order beweaned shun to decay!
Compare my motion with that of a shire-dweller,
Whilst in the mute counting let want I count not ne'er tell.
Fair be love among flatterer breeds,
Fair of wits' white removed will thrive like a songless beast.
Grown witless in love all but seems


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Hordes mighty plants grew about these perfumes out of forests.
Look, when the heavy oaks that head the earth out grow,
The black marigold undresses each body, making the top which light;
Harsh worms full rich in nitrogen grow wet on her yellow paws,
Mad telegrams, drawn at beauty's great westy siege,
Make quick errands, all the swift after hour glutton!
Duty untimmed conceit imparted upon beauty's possession dies
Soothful meury, being the fire you burn in this burning trifle.
  P

