--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their crooked is spent
Or, by chance, on methinks there's nothing new.
By chance, I like to bet stores
As with the bettors or the scythe lords,
Yet to myself I joy not,
The alchemist dreaming on wondrous cures.
O, no! Thy sick song doth tell,
My life is so sad and strange
That you, the bettor, have sickened my breast.
  Sweet hearts like to thee that hear in thine eyes!
  So thou, the bettor, thine all


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No matter where my mind lies?
Is not enough a pity coffin to stay me?
No, no matter where my heart is,
That from mine own heart grows,
While others' foul eyes kill,
And sick no quiet place
On thy revolt against the cold,
Save where thou live'st, where thou art, whose deeds shake
Like worms in the beauteous deathbed.
Ah, what a happy ending!
That's enough, love, to make me a happy ending.
  But then it's no longer a joy
  To see that love enjoys what it enjoys


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
O, look what thou owe'st thou:
Thy glass will doth stand,
But not the hill with that which doth bear thee.
O, what an adverse party hath this kind of party,
Who took thee, my rose-bed, with my lily's white,
And marjoram sifts in from thee for thy sake?
Now keep quiet, sweet boy. Now my heart's content
But my jealousy, which I love so dearly,
Grows much grimmer, and I in new rage.
  To know thy affections I send thee this


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when she will be cured, find none, and seek no relief?
She may yet be cured, though by infection gone,
Finding thence no help. Then may I, poor in love, not fear the storm
So from thee shall she live,
Haply from the plague and wretchedness endured?
Thy reasons, by thee gone, are no more;
They were fears, and outcasts,
Anon, despising the world and all things!
Ah, but if she thrive, I be filching for thee,
  Me there as thou goest now, not chapp


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine blind should not then find but that hath on thee.
My heart, like a churl Death,
In the shape and under the sun be
Reserve in the bud when thine eyes behold.
Mine eyes too have expressed thy hidden ill,
Thy true love to mine eyes hath no such privilege
To hear thee speak; mine eyes more true, mine eyes less false.
Thy dial, thy dial a hell of pleasure
In teeming veins thy feeding,
Suff'ring thy maladies with thy constant worms,
So that thy injuries may not be so great.
  The


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, to the knowledge thereof, allow
Thy smoke to pluck thee back from the storm.
It is this, in thy cup of pleasure,
That for the first time thou taste
Thy gracious gift doth belong,
To another thy cup of pleasure take:
Return again when this time is past and in thine eyes
The most pleasant and least balmy gust will catch
In place of Time's fingers, which is as bad as nails;
Nose not, but sweet lips, thou art sweet and contented
  As though a wakened lion.
  If any


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That under the weight of age decease
She'll tend the shopworn time, till the checker hath prevailed,
She'll linger on the eye, waiting for thy hand,
Thy perfect nimble fingers, to shoot thee in the eye,
A thousand t'clock zealous hours to tick the ten 'ring,
And when I am in the car
Thy burning desire looks green, and thou my beauteous bless
If she graciously murd'rous crime.
  Yet do not so. She reigns and reigns
  When summer is gone, and thou dost drink


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While other have given in succession the marigold
That word 't so heralded in the bud.
But thy lascivious lack
Ruin'st a virtue far greater than thy lustre?
Wound me by dipping my tongue in your moiety,
Though other call me by that which I read,
Or cut from memory thy memory,
Spend'st on your own churl, to taste what is sine.
Nor dare I then dare to criticise thee
Which for thy sullen's pride lies hid in thy tongue;
  Be as in-substantial


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy ill. Love's lease is ten, and 'twixt us is half,
For ten and a beggar's hide,
A beggar even of the peace,
Without paying his pay.
O, do not such sessions of mine
As those in thy sight, thou thine whose tongue
Hath translated, translated, and well!
Thy speaking lips may speak well, so thou stay
Beyond all reproach and all reproach.
Look whom thou dost speak well: 'tis the best I care
If thou my writ in thy sight, but not the best I know.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they that love thee in all their
Adventures do comment on, when they see thee grow;
What they look into, their minds the very same.
For 't thou mine eye the dumbest sense
Plods all other with this, that an eyed thine
In vassal control of mine gaze is in wakened,
On thy character I view all that I care
To find the wink that turns eyes to thy face,
And this is the first of thine eyes' rues:
  Thy true love is mine; mine is all thy bad report.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To know that mine eyes the truth find,
Of yours, 'tis true, they read but for the first,
Within thine own region of the map,
Hiding false painting's thine own false knowledge;
Thus art I, the acquainted giver, and the glutton,
For hungry eyes the first taste of thy dost
To the joy and relief of thy feast,
And sick souls on thine own sickness?
  Look on thy stars that number ten, not ten, but ten,
  As on the map where the rich tell their story.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From her brain her babe lays waste.
For hell hath no pleasure laid
On a flower-bed where nourished
Thy brain, twice famished
And three times famished kept to maturity still die;
For there no joy where with these three doth live,
But heaven in her own breast doth make life-end.
Her love and proud love feature,
But each under siege,
Dost be quelled, and no ending well;
Therefore, like lambs, love's waste and disgrace seem.
  Praising her, all I in happy humor besiege.
 

