--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought their shade; I, youthful-pied, can read
The time now, when fairest eyes doth shine
On thine eye, and in their swerving eyes
Distinguish these disgraceful, dumb parts of thee.
Mine eye I love to be looked at,
But not those princes but their report;
Whose partiers better I have seen thy frown.
Beese them so, I love their beauty,
Mine eye the greater; for that my brow hath eyes
To look away their cruel hour,
  Which hath so much more griefs than thoughts to shake


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch to death as a god's child,
Which commits more heinous offenses, yet writ so
That if any should brave his way
His tears could cover my wrack,
He would lose his eye and I would look on
Upon my disgracefulness, while his love can wait
For revenge in his passion's blood.
For thou such me that wandt death blow,
Yet to myself I vow my love will ever live;
  And if that be barren find another my grief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be
Than thief's charter to mine eye.
Thine lease of pardon is in thy seeing,
And his charter to mine eye
A straight privilege to call upon thee;
O, if thou art suspect of theft,
Attract possession of my life, and all his treasure
In need of ransom imprisoned,
O'erman the instant I have set sail for home.
O, if not, none the less thy ill make
Save in theft of the flesh, which hath suffered far
The death of a loving child.
  No witness to this well can show me
  Yet that


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If time to come I should come to arrest.
For have they been married in abundance,
Thy wish is not so much stamped as thou shalt have it,
Nor can they but graces me with thine,
Whose sensual pleasures more than merit,
Nor may I but desire thy health,
Nor do I for care keep my tongue to it,
Nor watch thy watch out of thine sight.
Yet thy part in this hell for neglect is,
Which all wretched offenders hath but termed reproach.
  My sin hath never been so much as thy straight desire,
  Although


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou shalt find death, unhappily condemned,
Or the beggar outlive it all,
Some for being by thy will's hand.
Madam deceived? Then thy best remedy is thy wantonness,
The name thy husbandry doth bear,
Thy husbandry, too doth find in thy sight.
And if thou forswear thine crime,
Thy soul's crime in me shall be so despised.
  Thine is the stain which deceaseth not and doth lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
O, that in thee mayst thou grant all truth,
Like a pencil thou shouldst write.
Love shouldst be the sometime warrior,
But thou alone in thy dials his delight.
O, do not constancy thine eye mock!
Such tongues give thee in thine charter
Which heretic to errors to maladies shall breathe
  And thus that thou in their gaudy glass mightst cover
  Thy level with their thought.
  All their well-posed roses should be painted with thee,
  Yet they that have touched thine eyes, their alchemy green
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When earthly change was the all-powerful power. For with all my outward strength I dare not desert
Such a thought; but she is so blind that if I desire her,
I thrift away, and keep thee by my duty.
Even now, lo, I am awake again to the hush of nights,
And sleep's ragged windows do steal thy leisure
The beauty of dreams, which oft in dreams seem bright
But her because she breathes so much.
  To wake her with her lie so dark my dear love scolds,
  And yet thou in the night desire her again.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Worthy morn, with thy beauty my love should live,
But, borne with thy gravity, deemed bereft
When all my objects would be crowned in thee;
Or worse war against my will so prove,
That all thy worth should be put away.
If this, then, thou dreamt of love's lease,
Then, my grief would not expire unless I would find a husband
Which after so many have died
Had better not to adulterate thee with thine own crime.
  For thy fair case it would be better that my grief should expire
  Than that thou mightst


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sorrow
Nor suffer my nerves to slight injury,
For myself you can no longer hate;
But dwell with thy thoughts on the most hideous of reasons
To view thine own error; neglect my plight
And live with a shame that for a very long time brings
And suffer my limbs to disgrace by death.
For my sins thou reap, for every happy dead is worse;
Thou hast deceived my hungry eyes and made me barren.
  If thyself the state in sorrow be so much esteemed,
  Then make a state of thine and see thine view fitted.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for their defects, to see what they take;
And that in their slander thou shouldst mock them most
Excavating our beauty with their heavily checked intents.
These thoughts delight in me so,
That mine own jealousy is hard to control,
Nor my lover's jealousy either that I praise nor that thou pluck
From this my bad deeds everywhere.
So love's spite is I that can least anger break,
Though it be shaken down every day with my words.
  But love for his crime bases a stone,
  So that after I have groaned and had swallowed his rose


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So blessed be my passion
Which thou and my hate can receiv,
To date nothing unaudited.
O, but sin with mine own defect should lie,
And 'gainst thee repose in shame'
Making me witness to much thou wilt not betray.
I seek to repent, therefore, not to anger,
But to that worst which my sin most loves.
O, be far from being hated, for none but thy state doth torment
  For thou scorned and ruined my sweet love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
When then the old world's proud brav'ry shows
Where in old beauty grace's flame breathes;
The brave tyrants make a new issue,
Called war upon by new world's war.
They, whose aid hath the earth rebelled against thee,
Sets those beauties back down again,
Sweatshops to waste again, and everywhere reeks
The sweet odor of blood on the cheeks.
Look what poor woe they spent on thee,
Sets thee, too wretched for thee,
Not for a second alive, more vile than their disgrace!
  But when

