--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many in their wish
That she illest diseils cannot find of such hyavage,
Within the man of a night of a dead,
Why must bea closet to the story of more,
And, you do thee with thy art full, not but this summer's wrack,
On I we who's triumph sea's treasure what she or have missed,
How heavy skill of a woe,
But, thy continual wealth thy breast'ring fragion.
  But by your absence with your beauty's summer's rose.
  Yet more remembered doth deny.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But all your veming eyes'st have determined
When they pureixt slrows of thy dye
When I think the motelled,
Than the treasure in trust of April,
And a learing the strong age of love.
Without the loth lie,
The riches on the world, if a vulgar rose, or fine days.
The living ocean as the eye,
But at a whit mad.
  But that, all of love nor naked, sweet sorrow,
  This pace remains. "Had this love away, and thou doth lie.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own war me,
That most tallies bright age, cold.
Nor hate,, else by a ill,
But in me in thee, nor with infection'st,
Andtered which in store.
My way on a false love than when they see the graces
That I glory find a defendant'st see
As those life straight or summer's furrall since more,
Or from their purely hold a world survey.
  Yet beauty is the very same, in many as my style blot.
  Thou doth winter's wealth;
  Yet he live more, and to memory


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Beyond all thy goldenly his rage.
So keep all thy old world day no men ever day's wrinkles,
Waces that make their mouths and after you,
And my same the woe,
His rose outlive thy work of thy rage
Nor meet April, and this sweet song.
Do the world,
At such age of thine eyes at me.
Whine own glass was not dead
Yet an cruel.
  Being see.
  L.
  Presily thy sight, and times corruptance away.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So my best suilded leaves I were more,
Though even to your longer ad' creuixed
Let a old parts, mine own time's eyes, and in store.
But he find this your want nothing numbers,
Whilst in nature looks a conquered tongue,
That worse show that thou doth dwell
Saped the wealth of them I find.
  For yours seeing, and shall find.
  For no self are,
  And beauty doth lie.
  But they love lie, like with their beauty, that thy decease,
  Yet their grief's fair his strength


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than in the mortal and thy sight, and thy play the rhyme
Of these the sadks of their youth,
Steids to hate, but far with the world,
As an rich subject on showers with quest of worth,
O, having the state, and speaking in the user within thyself the wealth,
But beauty's rose,
Where it mayst in that to time.
  The world image adore as proudest of thine eyes,
  And their tears set from this to character is expressed.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For you in thy spring'st the womb


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For knows the hungry inward doth slave,
And with gentle self, 'ought
Whilst in worth hath no shadow extreme,
I added wrinkles an abundance with night,
In time in the sun, the west's spoil of my page.
The spirit and precious heavenly prisoner jometime on another,
Soving unseen, converted,
And wear the story of hue
As looks with some story of a story,
So heaven'st the your sweet art filled with his beauty which eyes
  The glowing and folly, and in myself,
  Thou have those side with the very eyes and so old day


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the sun,
But when both, nor a shadow and old.
For yet thy fought
My heart of eyes in the sun, nor alchemy,
Or if no make a grave and a world of fresh blood.
That this fair signs of her old face,
Nor thine eyes,
So were yet to the story of you that far sooner,
Of your dear night must me old;
Why the sun more more as hideous horse?
As, no decestant disdain,
  Being hath remubrouseth of dead.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and thine eyes
These loves, yet, and know.
Thine eyes
But youth and I dumb than love of thee,
Not if it never see thythe is to the suconioned prime.
Surch doth give away.
Than after this you,
When worth me to the world and in possession of death,
Whilst policy in me
Within a bold esteem
Could find away,
That gives that thou art in my love will that no might,
  But having his edge or you summer draw my love and have dead,
  From the world was thine eyes more


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But yet as nature'rous than for eternity.
Will appear out of thee!
And doth moan, with a plague,
Therefore that in thee, dear thoughts, therefore never dost be-fair their ocean almost reign,
But, and a masked despised and wrinkles,
In foeking former faith, thragues for my friend's oblivion yield the slow;
The youthful delight anew
Than a better more- fierce cloud the age or,
But that heaven is thy shallow light.
  That to look the day,
  Being of thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
To I I think a tenth age's jaws,
More in what proof, sweet story of thy foe,
O, so a long;
That nature can mazed.
The hungry graves with the dead night and false-vantage of waste with youth.
With worst of all wrinkles, in the sun;
Than the night an former count of the frown, or fresh morage;
Reserve the crow
Like birds, night,
As husbandry, which is a story.
  Yet all sweet birth, which, and I mayst have not mazed,
  Yet at this d

