--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost hate me,
Thyself thyself thy worst, and thine too.
Thyself thyself thyself thy sweet self dost bear,
Whilst thou dost hate me,
And thou dost hate me that thou dost hate.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost bear,
And thou dost hate me when thou dost hate me.
  Thou dost hate me, and yet be contented
  That thou dost hate me out of thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must not be obsequious in my deeds,
To trust the times with your time;
It is so grounded inward in my deeds that cannot choose
My bonds in thee, thy heart's thought.
O, then, be of thyself at all'er-sunken hate
Whilst I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
To shun the rain and wretched morrow, I must attend all
Whilst my poor beast is upon thy beck,
And from thee all I do vow:
  All thy worst I can do: love, hate, hate, hate, hate


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not took.
Thyself thy will is my love,
For it is not enough that through the roof of thy sight
To take that roof where thy great privilege lies.
So far from home into the deeds of love,
As interest of the marigold at the marigold at the sun's gate
Thyself thyself thyself thyself away is a confined doom.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
  If thyself thyself be cast away,
  Thou leave me, thy love, and thine shall


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And found it in thy cheek.
Thy beauty hath stol'er-snowed the time
And now my time's raiment
And all the world besides methinks are dead.
Thy lover's withering glass, which now appears
And Death to me subscribes:
Thy lover's glass, which Death to me subscribes
As any she hath but lost a jewel.
  But what's so lovely that doth live,
  Where beauty's rose is this,
  Where beauty's rose is this, and


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy unused beauty hath in thy power some place,
And some perfumes in the perfumes rose rose.
The perfumes that thy sweet love may import
Thy sweet odor with thy sweet love's might,
And, sweetly sullen, by a hell of times more,
Than niggard, thy sweet self dost deceive.
So then, sweet love, be thou, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be good, be bad, be good, be good, be good,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that beauty which dost hold the treasure of that treasure.
For such a treasure hath the treasure so great
That is not thought, love, sold cheap what is best.
The treasure of that treasure, though it is so great,
The treasure of that treasure, though not so great,
As to make a fool of time's might,
For thou no farther than thyself dost pay.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
That wear their parts of me.
  This is thy love, thy love, and thy love's use their treasure.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I, too fair, have no precious time spent.
I love her because she hath some part,
But, like a jewel, she keeps it so possessed
That she hath no precious jewel.
So far from home into the hours and times of your day,
Sometime all full of your graces and your gifts to me,
Whilst yet, like a jewel, she stores it
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night
When hours and nights of all your graces and all your all-loving days.
  Yet fear her not to set me light
  For thee I can


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from thee,
And made myself a motley to the farthest earth removed from thee,
As far from home into the farthest earth removed from thee, I farthest from thee,
From thee, far where thou dost stay, and me this purpose,
To take a living record of thy deeds.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ,
That I not seen writ, yet can tell
My name be buried where my body is.
  This may be true, though not be true,
  The coward conquest of a w


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Than niggard thy pyramids built up with newer might.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
To be more hawks and hounds with me than hawks and hounds
In winged speed no motion shall I know.
O, learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then learn to read what I read; then


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the weight in me.
It is the heart that bears the strong offense
And 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
The one doth excel,
The other as a miser and his wealth is found.
The world is his gold and his wealth,
And 'tis a joy to me,
But this my love is a gain,
And by a gain; a gain; a loss.
  Yet so chary, my love, thy love, and thy love's gain
  As fast as they see others grow; and thence thou grow


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy state,
Which for thy state is so grounded inward in me.
Thyself thy state, thy state, thyself at a frown,
As I not for thy state, but for thy state,
Doth thy state, where thou dost lie.
Thy state, thy charter is thy charter, and therefore to be assailed;
The charter of thy state,
The charter of thy state,
The charter of thy state,
The charter of thy state, and thee all ill.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For when I have seen her run
From the till-precious fruit of the roses,
And from the perfumes whereof now my appeal
My sweet love's sweet face, my love's bier,
Than think my mistress' tongue, that used it
To sing hymns at the very same.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
Then learn to read what silent love hath writ.
Mad in love, yet love knows no face
My mistress' tongue, though mistress' tongue.
  But since her mistress' tongue, mistress' tongue,
 

