--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making their art by evil soiled
With insubstantial numbers of eager onlookers.
Loving and sad reprobbing bereft,
And made themselves thine enemies who wantonly cannot lose
Nor lose possession of the witless subject,
Save in strength by truest means making of hatred despised;
Might I not then by fear mistaken shouldop make
What poor offenders right fears,
That blenching desire in my grief well?
Kind love or straight love of others, to taste mine
That used birth seems fair to me. Love being kind or straight though things worst,
Is right


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that from far where I abide?
That's the sin that takes me where I am,
When like some god my dull intestine tract
Hasthes up diseased sauces and all sweet sauces made of him.
O, what foes' ire is my cause;
What rocks and falls within amiss
As rocks from within my distillation meet?
Mine own sin; thy purpose in my seeing
Is at variance with mine own love's love;
But now is my gracious spite, and truly repent;
Mark how, which I before have borne,
Thy graces, thy gracious name is now my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision
Whilst I like a false prime
Could fool a beggar husbandry to my doom
With rotten glass adulterate eyes
Which windows of windows blind they view
That rob the blind with blurring shame
When I partook of your need,
Lest princes with false rhetoric should write of thee
How hard labour mine eyes' worst vision
Strikes a mortal blow by his play.
O, whether pine or man, deep in thy fire,
He that burns no more that calls his shade;
Therefore stay for fears of him which lives in thee.
  Yet this I have not


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I with gust and wind seem,
Whilst your dull leaves twine nor the dresser
Do together find another
With four the same buds, so lascivious
Even in thine lascivious springs,
Whose second odor is as another twine.
Excuse not silence when I slander thee,
When in thee silence I still prove
That I am live in a straight race;
Excuse not offense when I do get thee to mend,
  For sweets do then my hatred engrafted  Into sweets I eat.
  Lascivious grace in thee smells more


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Return then from thine eyes, and I with thee are
Though enfeebled in filching desert,
Clouded in stars and clouds as thou art,
Applying salving sun to set the day,
Whilst it works with the morn to set and hath no flame to set on fire,
The mud within the dregs of summer's stain,
The bad and the good unwary heat,
Makes black night more bright and riper days dull,
Sinks moon and is Death's summer despised.
  And here's obscured hell that robs and leases
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and desire, that dost deceive;
They know but that food being made of wrackfully grub,
Whereto both dost deceive, being poor wits and false doth deceive;
They shall know that Nature and men's appetites are far worse.
They no longer but stewards of their own creatures,
Kinders themselves before they see, to yesternight they know best,
Whereto why Nature dost deceive and do wrong?
They may hate but that which doth live, but by being hated those who use them most.
  Therefore thou art hated to lose our sight


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which under the age is sunk,
Now living in full sail with me.
O, this glutton that so goes by
Till earth and sullied veins to smother his or take
Crooked mud shall blunter be
Than heaven's fierce anger; wherever food gives away,
Those who lack space live in the disgrace,
And many a malady feasting on Death.
  These then I from the west adore,
  Because women tend to eat both men and dogs.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
More subtle grief should I suffer,
Thine finger when approached thine eye?
Thy sauces, of less worth!
Yet this was my second after Lorenzo's "killed curse,"
For neither tongue nor heart nor body could ever bring me relief;
Someday, if vouchsafe me in thine eye,
Thy confessor should give my sick tongue another trouble;
So thou's full grown as dearer now to morn than before.
  Thy woes are much worse than thy tears;
  When found and grieved, thou plants the groundwork for their downfall.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so ill
One single wrinkle on my cheek;
The other is that my wing is rotten,
In dark and dim out
Nor nothing green on my breast;
Yet when they see that black in color
Lifts up his frame and shows no change,
A veritable d'emo churl Death, bide those who scythe his mess
And increase their gaudy haste.
'Gaudy words, poor speaking men, that chide thee
To the eyes that broils in progress?
 'Excuse not silence till thou hear my defense;
  Make peace and send d


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Sickle as water with frogs, or sickly marigold?
Therefore, all things being done, I devise an all-out siege
To steal thy sweet sight for my taste,
And fight foes in my entreaties.
Thy deepest love for me gathered is within my nerves;
Ten on thee I call battle, and thou foist on all kinds of strife.
  You best have that which thrives within,
  To besiege with too-frequently tanned desert,
  Or in endless knife warping.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For wherever great sin graces,
My deepest grief finds a plea.
For thee mine eyes, be whose petty grief
Finds here: mine eyes whether thee offend me most
Thy lover's argument holds true?
Ah, but by thee mine eyes are spotless,
Be absent from thy party, to draw in the
Some unstained prime from elsewhere, to seek those "away from me."
  But thou my love stay, mine eyes dost deceive.
  Thy appetite I thus as a foison stand: mine eyes but on thy growth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To transport it with one bound,
Of wert thou, of my loving confine
Bored with famine endured?
Dost thou never with table to ruminate,
As razed by hunger beguiled by heat condemned?
O, none gladly. Thence is brought time, and behold,
Thy niggard saith in amazement:
Bother your father, young man! Hence may she from wide area halt
Her tyranny! why should she razed
And drown your lovely lily?
  Thou leave her alone, her alone robs your lily.

