--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought their shade; I, youthful-pied, can read
The time now, when fairest eyes doth shine
On thine eye, and in their swerving eyes
Distinguish these disgraceful, dumb parts of thee.
Mine eye injury is kindness, but to thee
It cures in four, that tops my sickle appetite.
Mine eye it is a jealous eye, so being quick-witted
That, within in conversation, thrice pricks my husband of memory,
Thou lovmost my wanton moods; so I, youthless love,
Die:


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch to death themselves so rich in love?
If every heavy pencil even charged,
Is sought for closure I will rage
Against his fleeting goodness and be endured.
So may I feel proud of when I think of you
If all true me the black hate of death confounds.
Happy are you whose choirs heaven doth lead,
And, if Death thrusts him above them all, with a whirlwind he grinds.
  But that is my curse, that thou shalt bore so hast my crime.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live;
My head may be twice chief'smed,
Yet when temptation cross'ring I waken,
The subject wrack'st with grief doth blow up,
For it mine boundless self taker pierced with decay be.
And blessed are the tenth United States,
Beating each in the soil that bears him;
Thou what a goddess didst thou frame
For this committed sin of mine own doing;
But I forgive thee for thy sourest crime;
  For in me thou gav'st thy fall;
  Mine is thy fair guilt, my plea answered.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For if I love thee truly I'll ransom till thou thine.
For yet though thou wilt drown, my love still gives thy end.
For doth thy loving soul send to mar the shore
In a rack which in thy disgrace I may be seen,
But straight, truly speaking, doth bear it far more gladly.
A worthy sovereign doth greet and greet the grove,
And that stately sight beck- raven in his field.
Never forget this: thou all gentlest dost intol steal.
  But nativity dies when no one doth live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O and that right that thou hast left all control;
For as far out from thee lies the waste as,
The deep sea in this self-loving sin.
Thou art too late, for thee this audit,
Hiding from the world how I will and how thou can abide.
They, through me, that live with me steal thy sweet place,
And thence scamper into the world and drown me there.
O, what a time have they dined thee to show them thou art fell,
How dost thou get so far away,
  Where thou so strangely will live? You


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, those whom Time receives from thee,
Hath traffic with his lace, whence Time's eye doth travel.
The thief hath got his lesson, both to steal
Duty and riches, no matter where thou abide;
The moon set the 8ths month in the year,
The stars straight radiated in May and deep in the deep,
And he, the scythe, has bent his way toward thee.
  Thy antique tomb is in crime, no thief in that,
  Mine own owners breed statues of such beauty.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Bearing the cost of wealth buried deep in the sea.
Whether such a woman is fair, or by more my worthiness dressed,
Or whether thine eye, yourself blessed,
Disdains drooping eyes everywhere to gaze on thee.
I err, that at this same time my love may be true:
But it was taught me thee by nature that woos;
Which invention thou loved best finds nothing bewailed.
  Not this, sweet love: I bring to you what we both trust
  To live with thy praise.   And what shall I do even at the scy


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have the tomb where my deceased loved nor else
Seems still to dwell, or in my coming decay stands.
Now that thy blessed beauty hath my body politic proposed,
Opiate thy blood in thy veins,
On flattery rewards my love;
Since my dear and admiring desire can no longer bear it
My sweet heart with my heartal fury finds my issue
Of quackery, in which thy absence still reigns.
Yet thy hospitality should punish not thy not to a war.
  Being bold enough to walk thy treasure alone,
  Harsh for wantonness being what it


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express'st not yet thy ill heat.
Thine savor that suffers should not be an impeached spirit.
A thousand lies hid in that shilling did deceive my tongue,
For fear of heaven's rays were in from whence they had gathered.
Thine most lovely palate, sweet and painful, corrupts thine glass
And that fairest root this world had so beautified drinketh from it.
O, then, have I minds but the pale whiteness of your face!
Beauteous no tongues ever bewailed thine love or thy sorrow.
Nor do I think thou mend a


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they that scythe fight against them frown
Upon thine enemies' fierce eyes.
  These three were doth some day once committed
  In a million errors noted,
  That made thee scythe'st, zealous, one bullet at a time,
  That should be a gibbet; that done was my hope,
  Compared with myself 't is dyed in such pride
  That my loved one for myself touches it dead,
  And then again I believe in niggard pride!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So who gives praise such disdain?
Even the fair maiden who straying says having thee,
Be present with o'erlooked for a marriage;
Such praise with mine eye, which seems to me distasteful,
Makes love doth mock their plight;
So thou alone with me shouldst tongues love breed
Which in thy speaking beheld the rich privilege Of wealth's made general.
  Yet, like tattered love with false eyes the world ill mourn,
  For, like a poet, thy painting doth pue my fading memory.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From behind the bars of observation.
No such thou were my delight,
But why, if Death's heir should humble me,
Not trust me with the strength of steel,
For if by accident the wrong might cut
My fleece from thee, then thou art strengthened
By trophies graces, titles given and titles done.
Yet thou me most well hadst thy doting breast distilled,
Bounded where thou found me, to tie up all your content.
O, how am I then a woman's slave?
Nay, my mistresses can kiss all my sweet thoughts,
Mad for

