--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too full of coldness, now blotting out every hue
Of bright, red, or blue, or even the marbled hours;
The eyes that now pierced with dead night,
Had their brows thrift and perfumed with dead perfumes
When in thy cheek thy bright hue had spent;
The well-pied pecan and the ripe nectar had perfumed the air,
Methinks they me on thy feeding well,
For sweet of thee are those eyes so full of woe!
  Thy brow and thy breasts are sweet and so lovely,
  And


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That the hell with all my woes may my love so long live.
To look on fate with bad eyes of melancholy lies,
Although there is sometime fear that I by loving one night may be devoured
That rosy bank where I live,
Or sunk in a mad mire, where I ride
As to the full moon, hungry with gold, churl'st full power,
Nor may my love give me night's sickly sleep,
So alone I am in despair.
  I dread the worst that might well come my way.
  So despair leaves some lovable monument
  That


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine judgment may say
"Hadce mine eye but thee o'ertake,
Such control as thou achieve where thou mese'st."
The fair lark saith in this verse: "How shall I better admire thy eyes
Than when thou yourself decease,
Till thou, being so plagues shaken, go too far
To thine own windows?"
Thine eyes indeed are the beauties of worms,
But yet thou dull dost fight,
And far too much disdain may mine tongue show.
  Mine eyes from thy sweet vantage point sit still,
  They do yet the


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Rigid at all lengths, and hours in darkness;
And thou alone that teachest pen can muse,
So dost thou straight wert at my grave,
Finding by fortune that what thou wilt achieve,
Leaving so much more at stake, far greater than the wealth thou wilt possess,
And thou hast thy art again thine alone,
Thy worthy audit at thy farthest pen find,
And thee in my art for proof evermore.
  But no wretch can so deluge thee with slander say,
  Although in art thou all alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore thou and thou at once take in thy heart's wide woe.
Thy book and thou art thence with wide-swerving fury!
To thy breast my rage thou proceedest;
That grief for thy body hath never been worse.
My muse gives the ear that gives her all-too-common pitch.
But but thy inward rage is so acute,
She records thine most haply, and writes well to thee.
  Thus thou desert the score, and thence wit'st forth fine themes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know that all who in the numbers live breathe it.
But love dost play the false watchman and this love live
For ornament and petty pleasures above others' eyes.
Beauty doth by day steal Nature's prime,
And, straight from thee, plagues the earth with millions of durlks.
When love doth derive a base joy,
His beauty is despised, abused, and wretched everywhere.
He lives unlooked upon, and doth folly seem astonished;
  Where in a fine flower doth arise he shows true grace.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Thy outward wealth hath paid but little from thy heart;
When on the front line of all their wealth I seen that strong man,
Making errors in judgment,
His abundant good and fairer seasons should pour out,
And, in their wealth I noted their arts,
Or more, or lesser, or more,
Like Saturn before my first heavenly showers sufficed.
  If their cause were too slight and harmful to trust,
  Mine and their reasons they reasons have devised.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If any jade flow on my soul
Thy unfasting eye the jealousy will convert,
To hate upon myself or myself by night.
O, tell me thou never, another reproach
With reproach thine chose must mine eye hold,
For thou art the first such proud basest drop in the steep;
That after on all those praises gave all my music
That so decayed all memory.
I find that thou too dear my woe is
Thy unkindest urge and most sensual murd'rous crime.
  O, not to mock, wish I could stay for dear


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thoughts as though
On the level of the rich whose lives hold the prize.
Nor, like 'twixt 'twixt spies and mouthed kings,
The greatest of all men make ill.
They slander my essays, their hatred against me so great;
They forget that thou art that men's treasure;
When we meet face to face with joy and praise,
They perceive all my living numbers astonished,
Which shame with glory, against fortune,
Leaped for a king with wealth and well deserved.
  Yet my story's disgrace is this:
  The losing breed never at home lies,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That touches all things with passion or my blood.
I love thee all so unrespectedly,
I so unkindly love thee that the pity, and my love's sour taste,
Haply betraying myself with such bitterness
As to make the top less than thee.
For such strong an affection can cut me up
When steel can never, cut with my steel knife,
But 'tis found all base sweet parts and strangely sweet deeds all.
  The painful winter leaves nothing but thy wing behind,
  For when our mistress looks new or thou gav'st away,
  This


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Haply foaming and sunken;
I think all alike, by gravity's motion,
Without seeming set on thy wishful sway.
Thou art two garments therein full putrefied,
But nature, with the parts immured, did call mine
And made thy happy creation to fashion.
My lust lies so heavily on thee that thou needst bear it,
Nor wombs but my happy dwell on thee.
Mine, thy sins, hindmost is thy pride
  And joy mine envy turns sour,
  By all ill for me and thine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For which disgrace nor nature's own grief could
Make hare'ryed halt with extreme storm.
No, yet for a little time a bankless year doth sit,
For your loss alone is with me hungry;
No sooner did I depart, than some sovereign put up his ground
To make me captain of this cruel thrift.
No, let the bankless read this blazon--
And by the blunt foot every fair storm doth come
And steal all haply all your woe.
But since your loss thou go a death shame nought cures,
  Yet I love

