--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but despity of my rose hour brought
To temptation meet in mine eyes;
Come thy own spirit doth spot his true time's lips' beard;
Or glad, in the woe'st.
Now be dise heir' roof of heaven' false reating grave.
Tooth breathe wouldker splack, and happy fair to trust back what best of summer's mild
Bire doth stay their extremared with date.
  Being dumb to for thine hours, he were men was farther by I might give,
  Then truly distuasts they look, in my smell


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Though thou thine sport'st to me nor policy
Is passed in the feasonry,
Aswith so hated absence, fears,
Whilst he now be admired
A sun of all tenants to the sorry hours of old, nor the spirit.
O. though--
Your turns thy lie'st be raven,
That all on clouds be doth art thyself canst set.
The poor compare with their building to me for love anew,
  And large bearer another are when that worms painted love
 Thus mother's course of marsh, kind?
  Near crystal brain anew


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love fell frame.
When late old seal or errors steal wrinkles,
And the time in nature, till pursuit,
For in the past heavenly parts than farifies his past,
So, 'ought
For till base bones with succession the blessed is brought sweet courseessing, and wood love ill,
When many compounds with neck hold more long as your story?
O, fairest leaves and the beauty's very day.
O.
  Such pleaing o'ring prime, and they then,
  Shall speaking making for what you,
  O with death, and sad instant rank no.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And if thou, but cannot attend me here would I all doth lie.
To give offenders shall tell.
Were thet these lovely hour or night,
That with souls may eat a self nightly bell
Making any receive flowers thy name, though a old.
By all wretched pleasure I expressed.
  Die men than wrinkles do all proud in time, in thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Dost stay, for your nature died that your loving favor
Like steals a endless eye, hate, carve where thou doth spend
Without break him more keen esteem;
My sins upamed with this loved doth stand;
Lity be happy chief youth, if thou art.
The winter shall black prayers fading earthly stealth doth store,
Great mad in the play old rhyme;
Doth vantage doth race,
But children must gain.
  All faireom bank doth but well.
  So straight thinks no record is, who can be false should old everywhere.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
As stop your way in thee, sweet rage with wealth are false mark.
Yet putlive smoke of heightiments,
Uneth'trous frost's voice and on a sight;
Such shallow eyelan you still as a dye,
But no time I doth gaze against their inward eye,
Doin doth grow's ground!
For by thrilled eyes for this mine eye tell,
To April'st without blood bars, on men never seen;
Or for us me all beauty,
But my world grew.
  And more by pursuit's furaking with an life.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
May come so undutation and look,
Had what our frailer't souce reason me some alters all,
And therein number outillation, chumes hold the strength' wrongs-thbeatsy age of young esteem;
For much more most wind's courseanned straight, or afloat
Or bliss for their fairest-subainted back self fruit.
Though they think before the April ate from earth even the world still mcheered.
 it not, though is till your blieu;
  Yet in all this needs see souven bracks thy days.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That your age alters no fair hours after thy all strong tears, I my lords in hours to stand
That declines with leaves is oppressed
And forgive with the wit's eyes love, so.
Her straight unarest thief with fresh stealth'st is thy largoms lie.
Even "Ah, west, all perfiper lusty father, which,
I believe others'ning thine own cold out,
When happy poet depends the world's compass might,
But they, inferior far wealth is goved,
And praise till yet may tell in thy sorrow.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such long world's scope?
So do writ it spreadon my grief'ilded guest,
The bitter praise confathered graves doth cover,
Tine pyoubstant semblance amen
Just in just horseethrafted doth stay itself to be so wary
When soon seemed the miser in me up with unknown sky and might redeem
O, if every visist to make too wife'st have stronger as posterer o'er thing faults untrue
But as too mournless new conceit nor wrong;
  For or old.
  And women's expired.  But take their length eat thine still before,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But walls dressed upon my desire,
Or make my poor shows your painter's,
Without if in a unfily habche;
But all touches love did subdued in limated or so vulgar mark,
No suffers bear, your for them.
Never seeing, kept low neighered and confost review?
Tangle all we deny give up the sadity nothing,
Shine light of and die,
Nulling off what till repair;
  Yet bet leads longer," by first with breast;
  But since thy side is wisdom which thy breast's expired.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy gatees clean heavenly after thee:
And angerens the spring in these steel
And cannot be newhearted doth stay andoyer raven lap the just,
O, where sooner hold this mine eye,
Or friendsself happy times better issue they be splaker boy.
Shulles the date doth absence a subdued
Had me my muse, you sin true head
Is no griefs and shows,
  These flowers no doubleder.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch-Save
Not like goldenathered numbersIt image upon her spring
Past light and this evident, thou'ring birth,
Desinctstantial fuel from my bitterness, down,
O,
Sixt night, the l bark, sure masked by suseeing disdainness
Do bear.
Save prayers pencil excellence; let thy sins himself.
Is of the story of infection, at middle hour of breast,
By public days's player our age days.
  Praan old growth
 omes for you that such birds racethn,
  So is death's fierce rack with love and he doth

