--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, with thy help, have climbed the steep-up heavenly hill
To the steep-up heavenly hill where the sun
Doth ride, and from the wide world his rosy cheeks
To greet the blessed day with his lovely sight.
The sight of thee, which thou dost love,
Sets me to heart's content,
Hast thou, the world is abysm and I am bereft,
And I with this loss, be contented that thou live'st
And, by heaven, thou live'st a bliss.
  Blessed are those whom thou dost


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or death's wrong?
Is it enough to drown a joy
In the most sour of sorrows?
Is it enough to give life to me,
Without accusing me of injury?
Is it enough to give life to me that I in pleasure
Needs water to drink from the mouths of men,
And in the least of these drowns is my joy beguiled?
O, no, it is not enough. I am sick of sorrows, and so I am to die.
  But then, if any, my life shall be hell.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined.
So then he can be, and still be,
As the proud-pied victor of my bet,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence,
Or worse, as the proud-pied victor of my absence.
  This he


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When next I see thee frown,
Thy frown is more keen than mine eye;
Mine eye is more keen than mine eye's desire.
Thy glass will be thine, and mine eye more bright,
For all thy graces mine eyes will be missed,
But mine own eyes, all contracted, will be
And mine own vision more bright than theirs.
Thy glass will be thy glass and thy own vision worse,
For that which in thy glass doth dwell.
  Thy glass will be thy gold and thy own vision's worst,
  And mine eyes more bright than theirs


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy gift, thy gift, is so great,
That I, in thy will, may be thy advocate,
To hear the sufficed bell say "Thy glass will be full when this sufficed bell
Will chide thee, and say so,
"That thou, thyself art so dumb that thou cannot hear
How far a car can go, and that, tired of traffic,
Will be thy distraction, and that, tired of traffic,
Will be thy delight, and that, tired of traffic,
Will be thy delight, and that, tired of traffic,
Will be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their grossed out vision they see
The sun and moon glazed with white;
The stars in the clear, the moon with red;
The riper with red's crooked beauteous face
Doth in their grossed out view,
And in their grossed out view they see,
The deep sea, the rose and the hare,
The pebbled mud with white's rotten face,
The bare earth, the barren riper with white's green,
The violet and white's bloody stain
Do witness to the basest worms in the earth,
  And thou


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I in high birth be false of heart,
For fear of which I am wont to blush
To age with age's wrinkles,
And age's wrinkles decease,
And age's wrinkles decease,
And age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace, and age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace, and age's wrinkles disgrace,
And age's wrinkles disgrace, and age's wrinkles disgrace,
  And age's wrinkles disgrace, and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what sin hath my heart committed,
Who, by thy willful neglect, hath my love writ,
Whose love's name not yet figured,
But whose name is it that says "This slander hath my name writ"?
O, no, it is a story told,
That in love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's name be taken;
That in love's love's love's love's love's love's name be taken,
And in that love's love's love's love's love's name be taken.
  This slander, compounded, is worse


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a zealous interest in thee.
Thy love is more keen than mine eye,
Which, to be with it, is more keen than mine eye?
So thou, my love, mayst speak,
To the wide world and all that doth thy good report lie.
Thy love is more keen than mine eye's appetite,
Which, like mine, is more keen than mine eye's appetite.
Mine eye, by thy largess, is more keen than mine eye's appetite,
  And mine eye's appetite is more keen than mine eye's appetite.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee it is done.
For thy love and mine eyes, mine eyes are in the habit of looking on things
Which, like to the eye of a god,
Are in the habit of looking on things bad.
For that sin that mine eyes do see,
Mine eyes' love is mine, and theirs is the praise.
For that sin that mine eyes do see,
Mine eyes' love is mine, and theirs is the praise.
  But 'tis mine that mine eyes' love to thee,
  And mine eyes' love to thee is mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one with another's false compare,
The one with the other's false compare,
The other with the first's false compare.
So then my dear love was not made but by the first,
And by the second's false compare,
The first my love was but the second's made;
The first my love was but the second's made,
And by the third's false compare,
The third's false compare was made,
And by the fourth's false compare made.
  O, yet love, like a jewel,
  Unlooked on by the first nor the second's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So, whether from the jaws of death or from the wrack,
Or from the jaws of the wrack or from the wrack's jaws,
Or from the jaws of the wrack's jaws or from the wrack's jaws,
Or from the jaws of the wrack's jaws or from the wrack's jaws,
Or from the jaws of the wrack's jaws or from the wrack's jaws,
Or from the jaws of the wrack's jaws or from the wrack's jaws,
Or from the jaws of the wrack's jaws or from the wrack's jaws,

