--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet this is not love to me,
But that thou hast painted it in love.
O, but that thou art loved and thine eye
Was painted in love to me when thou art mine;
Thine eyes thou art mine, my love to thee
And thou art mine when thou art mine.
O, no, love is love to me;
The greater part is mine, the lesser part thy love.
  But to thy true love I so desire,
  That my fair eyes to thee are black.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If I be found guilty and be condemned;
For even so hath it proved
That my sins are well-taken, and that I am condemned to go
To hell in hell for my crime;
For to my plea of guilty I plead
That I have suffered a crime that is worse than hell.
So much grief hath my life suffered
That I have been through hell nearly twice
And that I have seen so many cruel men built
Against each other's wills.
  Yet this I will not so much as shame at being condemned
  As I think I am condemned to go to hell for my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be;
I have said that to him I owe thee,
And in him I swear that I am your heir.
For this he owes me thee, and now more than ever I have remembered,
Than thou my gift, that he lends.
The world hath told that he is thine heir,
And I deny it, but thy name is remembered.
For how else could my thief, whose birth I did hide,
Give thee such a right of title?
  Thou art mine, he is my treasure.
  Thou art mine, he is mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With our dear love's bastard child, and my love's pride
Hiding in shame, misplaced pride, mixed with shame.
Thou art so wretched, so miserly, that canst not live on thy rack.
If that glass should break, thou dost love it and find,
A miracle all the more true to me.
O, how much more bliss do I see,
Than that glass which tells the story of thy love.
  Thou art so wretched, so miserly, that canst not live on thy rack.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou departest from me thou dost be set free;
Thy spirit within thee commits the crime
Of straying far from thy sight.
If this be not so, thou'llst be remembered for me.
If not, therefore, my spirit, which doth shake
Like a diseased horse, return home
That is a friend to thee.
Thou art my friend's son, thy soul's sovereign;
If thy spirit, be dumb or deaf,
Thy self thy son's heir shall be.
  For thee I have worms, and thou art worms's appetite.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What is it that decease their eyes,
And then, in their gaudy red eyes, see thy shadow on their cheeks?
Thou art the fairest and most beautiful sun,
Beauty that hath no spring nor twain
To ill shows nor ill shadows in their sight.
Yet for all thy gentle eyes, the beauties of thine eyes
Were far too inconstant to thy sight;
The rarest of all shadows is thy shade,
Which gives thee such high beauty's show.
  Thou art so fair, so true, so kind, so kind, so kind,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And it is not my hope, that my love might provoke
To write a love story that would steal away my heart,
That my love should know of some conceit,
To say, "This poor world hath a clock that spies on thee."
My love's most precious minutes are out of date;
My dear love hath not yet proved so sick,
But I have seen the clock doth lie,
And every-day begins the most grave day.
  This, dear love, I desire to be remembered,
  For all my sins have ever been seen.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy power, which thou useest, hath by no means done injury
To my life;
The rich, therefore, have a sweet feel,
They like not to lose their effect when their owner is dead.
So much the better the wealth hath suffered that I should suppose
That thou, that hath some kind of power to lend me,
Need not to make me vow aught,
Nor mock me if I am rich,
Unless I be false, that hath no purpose whatsoever.
  Since thou dost so unprovident a widow
  That thou shouldst by my life be ruined.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much
Than this: 'tis not the time, dear friend,
To besiege thee with all kinds of vexation,
To audit my beauty, my rank faults, my frailties,
My wealth, my care of my affairs, my fame,
And to prevent my traffic with jealous princes.
Then shalt thou devise a war
Against this fierce day that will mine, and mine alone:
  Mine own precious teeth and my love's teeth,
  Mine own treasure, mine own name, mine own love.
  And so thou shalt write: 'Tis the time that thou shalt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that hate's injury such as mine eye.
Since this sight hath so many faults contracted,
I yet weep for thee, and for thy sake my heart
Than that loves me more than thee,
For it loves what it loves less than myself.
Therefore I forbid thee my sweet love,
Than from thy breast that my breast girds to contend;
Mine eye, though mine own, is mine.
  I do not hate thee, nor thy beauty either,
  But that my love may seem,
  Being of thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thine own false love, grounded on sinful loving.
Then may I boast, yet boast I am still
Thy true love, which belongs to thee.
Yet for thy praise to thine I do well,
And yet thou art false, and I am thy worst
Thy true love, grounded on sinful loving.
  For thy bad in thy me I love thee,
  So that in thee I may boast,
  As in thee I am false and despised.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now for this I think I have some knowledge,
And that my joy is more complex than your beauty's.
Mine love is so brief that you cannot know
How to show it off in my sight.
I see it in your glass which in your glass I see;
And therefore it is a wonder I am so strongly acquainted.
O, be not so swift, my love! I see thou hast no glass
Which in your glass nor in your glass I see
Nor, being yourself glass, perceive thy sight nor thine eye.
  This my love, that thou art my glass,


