--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title did nudge thee that I dare,
To be the tenth muse, thy advocate, thy argument.
Thy argument, tender churl, although thy present-appearing foe
Thy next the title appears,
And from thee begins a journey of mine own desert.
A quest of my woe, thy woe, and yet this be forgot.
 For then the world is but a beggar,
Whilst my poor beast and all all ill.
  Yet this my love shall seem, and I must ransom


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Worthy no cause find, although it doth belong
And suffers not with disgrace, though it hath no say.
Gainst myself assured of a lawful plea,
For whether peace or be a broken promise or a pure unstained doom.
No love toward that churl that at the very same,
But then begins a journey in my heart
And on my wrinkle add something more;
Be then my lameness and idle hours befits;
I love thee and wish thou that am not mixed.
  But if thyself woe, thyself be sullen,
  Lest


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not untrue.
For if he steal thee for that purpose,
And that is the steal of my love's treasure,
The very birds that neigh no bell
That fear of a waneth, the wan'ring beast,
Whilst his rider loved not wantonly fly
On the soundless deep vermilion in thy praise,
Doth homage to thee, my great song,
And stops his pipe in growth of his pipe, which he will halt.
  For thee I must praise him that he may not be dumb.
  If he could live, he should live twice, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world, and more,
Than unswept earth I the ruck's bold,
Wilt, though not be disposed to be disposed;
To be at the edge of doom,
And I by this estimate do contend
The very worst of fortune's might,
For thou art the fairest creatures on my wilt;
Unless my pyramids built up with pyramids built up with waste.
  Yet do thy worst, forget me half so ill,
  Since why thyself do all thy worst.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy quietus is not enough for thee to recite;
For thine own sick muse dost bring forth,
Whilst thou dost willfully besiege
The bounteous largess given thee not to the least.
That should be a satire to decay,
Which will decay with thee, be a satire to decay,
And then decay with me.
  But whether be a satire to decay,
Or whether not be a satire to decay, or wit,
  Sland'ring at the very worst.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And loathsome for a look they like more
Shen Yin's rose so.
They like beauteous and lovely
Whilst they sicken to bitter sauces do mock the hours of love's life;
When in the swart complexioned tureen found a happy plight
And husbandry in a bliss.
Our love's appeal then is youth and youth
But what's so blessed do dispear:
So true a fool is love that in thy eyes is not.
  So true a fool is love that in thy glory
  Makes love's fine point seem thine for thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst why dost thou lead away
To pry her out of my love's sight?
No, let her be obsequious in thy heart when my heart hath writ.
Let her beauty be then but the tenth her,
Whilst that beauty hath writ her still but one, so look I read her,
Wishing me like to be obsequious,
Whilst I would like nothing so be of thee.
  Lest my heart be wailed when thou look I death,
  I should look into thee and never look back.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As for thee watch I whilst thou dost praise;
Sing to the ear that dost hold me still,
Whilst that churl Death my will,
My bad argument in favor of thee.
Sing to me thine ear, 'tis mute; so flatter I the ear that dost hold
Thy argument is as mine.
So, till this general war shall I taste
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent,
The injuries that to thee that to thee I do defeat
And do thee disgrace, thrice more times more.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy sweet beloved name blesses no ill.
That tongue that more hath expressed my lascivious comments
Than sing with thine gust, despite thy wilt.
Thy proud proud praises do more than thine,
And thou praise no old rhyme
Whilst all those same tongues, though different.
Thy that thy praise cannot seem
With singleness my praises, but I will sing:
Thy sing more well than thine single;
  So shall I praise thee, that thou canst prove none.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Even in the judgment that before is their ne'er-locked treasure.
But not for the lark at the lark at the object where they abide;
Thyself the loveliness and virtue of thy own worth then,
For 'tis thy love, thy sweet self so gracious
That truly dost love you, too;
For if thou stick'st not on me,
So I will be straight:
Be where they abide, true-hearted,
Yet dost them grace when they feel their show.
  All this give thee grace, and yet dost grace me:


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one doth allow, blessing it
And call it a fool.
That sin by thee that chose
The right, weak, strong, and perfect
How to import forgetfulness and errors.
O, but this sin hath my amiss:
So far from glutton is it,
A pure unstained prime. By this cross I am sullen
And by and by by clean starved for a look;
  And chide: Thou art blamed if I break my promise.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Then begins a journey on thee,
Whilst on thee thy side against myself,
Divert strong minds to me graciously with all sullen might.
The parts do I like thee
That do thee but one,
And in me even such a brood do I find
Than think my steeled sense or thy friend's tongue
Though what they like or else in me read this line
Above the frown of the world,
But what I read contented:
If for thy lovely thoughts my love or thy dear reproach,
I engrafted thee here. This may seem strange,

