--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine eyes thy woe is my proudest praise.
Yet these eyes with their more tender eyes delight me more;
Thine eyes, in their bright, as thy brass,
Spend their fair light upon thee,
And the fairest hue, the fairest shade,
Shifts up their purple with thy white hue.
I love them more than thy breast wastes;
Thy eyes and thy breast are my dearest friends.
  These eyes with their more tender eyes delight me,
  To use my sweet breath to drown thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But a glass of sweet rose-coral water be
Doth quite enough to cure me of my grief,
For seeing thy grace drained by my grief,
So that, starved for love, I hasten to my bed,
To take physic, in hopes of him
Resembling him in his state of sadiness.
Then, my self grieved at this,
I find myself motionless and delirious
And every extremity dumbed with grief;
For, despite of this, my heart fears nothing.
  Then dost thou increase thy grief,
  By thy sickly


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may come
And lend me some charter to take with me.
Therefore be assured: thou canst not be defeated
By this vilest tyrant who doth exceed
To pay me in subjection to such tyrants as these.
The very lease on me now is this:
"To thee I will do this homage:
To thee I may live another day,
But that thou, being my bravosticate muse,
Thou mayst brave to wane."


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For if she send another, yet this time my will be done.
I'll stay, though she stay, yet I'll stay;
Her wish will stay with thee,
For thou art her sweetest friend, and the child of my wish.
The child of mine is dead, though now her wish live,
And still my wish live with thee.
Her wish never again doth my heart sail;
Her wish is strong enough, and I am her friend.
  But now she touches my heart, and thine too,
  For thou hast my worst fear, and mine is worse fear


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art so far removed from that which thou art,
Thy merit so remote that my cross may be seen,
To that inconstant black that doth question thee so
Who thou shalt hear the call of the dead,
And what shall thy thoughts say
If thou gav'st to be buried with me?
Thou art so far removed from this time that I am not astonished,
And, even so, I have thought on thee
That this thy pilgrimage to life must end.
  There is no need for thy sepulchers,
  Unless thou pardon my sins, and thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But they cannot perceive thee,
If thou art in heaven's far-seeing glass.
Therefore thou art made a fool's errand;
Thou art a cross of unseeing eyes,
And yet beholding thy beauty doth defy
To greet thy looks with all the rest.
Thy eyes can see, thou can see but thine.
Thou art the fickle eye of beauty's eye
That perceiv'st not thy shadow,
Nor art thou the churl that says it wilt.
  But thou be their fool, whom their false eyes dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That in that false state of mind which from henceforth doth sit
Upon her brain I should dream of waking her.
I do believe that, despite of thee,
My love is eternal and can live but so long.
Beauteous thou art, and by that she woos;
She had my lover, my love, once, but, unblessed,
Sometime from thee vanished, and I beleive she lived.
Her hate is well known and well-known,
And thou, that art my love, shouldst not kill her.
  But I dread thy slander


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
It hath in my breast in every vulgar book,
And more in all the world's papers,
Since thou, too, shouldst allege some unfair honor.
But that is not the point. The point is this: Thy worth lies in thy state of mind.
Thine own worth is not more than thy worth's abundance;
Thine own worth lies in thy gilded statues,
And all the world's papers' content is thy sight.
  But when I see thy worth of thine eyes,
  My goodness is more strengthened than thy envy's bitter rage.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy disgrace's scope.
Thy woe is not to me a disgrace to thy time;
My neglect is a disgrace to thee.
Thy true love is not to me vulgar,
Nor vulgar praise vulgar to thy sense.
Mine is a habit which thou dost berear;
Mine is a habit which thou shouldst invent,
And this to myself all men wrong.
Thou art in need of my pen, which can write thee shame's
If thy love were but mistress of my thoughts.
  Yet be of more use to me than thine beauteous self


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And this hate that loves more than the fairest
The least of the better scribe's touches.
As the fair woman may make thee a fairer shade,
So shall my beauty, which, though it be most debased,
Will still thrive in the world and be esteemed
Though it be under siege of this fair day.
For thy bounteous bounteous love hath all my riches and hath thy parts,
That is why thou art so blessed in mine eyes.
  For thou art such a gracious husband,
  And I for thee so much merit boast.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For love of thyself's sake lies not in thy heart,
Nor in my gross thoughts nor my cunning thoughts.
Mine love is my sweetness, and my thoughts thy sight,
Thy self in my gravity lies,
Upon love's loving gaze or my willful heart.
It is the tyrant with my thoughts that hath my pleasure;
For thou art my tyrant, and that with me am imprisoned.
Thy own self, to thy love, is to be despised.
  But to this thy love is shown me,
  And my love tells me that this is true.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The heart of this rage, as well as all the rest,
Loses all control of her body, and is decayed
Died of her beauty, wherewith all her bounty lies.
For if thou look on this woe, I will weep
And all the world shall know thy name;
The world and thee shall be one,
And one love in all the world shall hate me so.
  Yet fear, for fear of this hate,
  My body and all the world shall fear me,
  Not for thy sake nor for thy pleasure.

