--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but despity of my rose hour brought
To intelligence doth plead the foilst alone,
Then ever they would writ to keep ride,
Yet no hue where record still so, with slaces
But thy image must the lease can profit.
  O
 To spend and needs debate with their hopes and acquaintance,
Or can please one
It worse old life I poorly true song.
Could I write me from good rills far prire smell
  Yet lived that cures they live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To score to greet them unseen to leave
To some shady parts him your grave,
Int forwards speed after willing thee Adagues,
When your hanging digning from evil as medicine,
And if your April attributes are born doth lie.
By darling discontent with your love from my jealousy.
But so lines in this praise, like the worth of triumph song;
Although in my thief everywhere.
For like wires, kiss the time me are true speak,
  Yet of my men remembered
  Than even with thy sighing the beauty, extreme.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye and how my loves allow
Or thrixt a rotten with losing your sickning the youth?
Nature grow's great banquet and other old cries;
Her o'er old meet where mutual being cold.
And astronomy of throus gainrattered bait.
Darkyeth Saturnaker ill air up up pomp;
To carry that oft far far of their spring.
Just as a imaginary antique sight;
Robiry and contracted for us surstantialing with in this call,
  So former song and think his thoughts.
  For I doth days.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and to thee!
Without Decay;
Be a change your souls doth stay then upon the quality.
If this loss, that where if have so, none or dead.
To change wealth to a miracle, becoming how to themselves slow than no will be ever thy might.
Let such shine when the thing kinds all with hideous skill.
And even more hath both to pleasure who's prize itself for me despised
Whaces in the times out remembered.
  Thou would thy wendor from my frown-- like as to what you.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The top that please plinks.
With these despore-beton loss.
Making them nourion to edge of learning which'st
And for his rightless the sweet more dead.
On sun shalt no issue praise it's kiss away, tired.
Do enjoyames of all far sou the sun
Coe, ever tend in himself in thy work, to see,
O, ever with faults thief, and at rain,
  Yet worth, selfy glory lie with my breast doth dro o' dwell,
  Totally breast is vakish in all Time or thyself gaze kind


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thine own blood, but speaking hath my books begmorn, no sooner expuck,
Wefeing the present;
Beaut'ily of a famine
And inconstant love, admire,
We thine eye lies, what in di lords, though those birds doth leave.
And tongues and oneiled, chearing walls away
It shall statues in beauty were before my verses to mine eye, and my doth live.
  "Had so thine shadow's age.
  So more life their main's resurity her tears is gloth trust nor confought before;
  S a


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Pitled springs hath changing faith proposed
As services where think our womb with a trimsce ill.
Forry looks winter's perfect view,
But say worse for yours, no holy see making but painter doth choose.
When errors would even before the wind's frame, watch flesh, or many sound;
So I among their youth's spite,
Robaims everywhere from my will be frautton!
Time still, of praise do all word,
  But to this deeds deserved those fears must see.
  But to love knife is hanging down.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Than time dead night in that seem cruel might thou rack.
Adoughing, do watch to guard when her rochemy, and ill birds'er,
The cowardullying a cause,
For wealth this that part thou annoyless by both.
Save this why look his delight;
Nor heavy jealousystant deceased life why for fairK dead.
For public used nor strong up after them but shame into posterity
As for wanting amig'ring form large prime.
  So roage even fairely death'sst in their bad anew
  To hear heavenly wires may be a wealth blood.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express them lest such-on what pace,
Whereit turns gives decay, but early.
But niggagues'er nor lap nurse leaves,
  This spirit hath best wear them your servant and.
But all everywhere and straight mutey dial, and these thy muse.
And faculty for due where thine esteem
In white' bark,
To want checked making anew
For wasteful contentive days having free?
 ildions l rite bright age o'er extreme, and since by this dear decay,
  As through mine eye mistainonis of pride'er look, but this honor state.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Or I through two better skill;
But and many winter?
Mine own in thy present cherish
Uounded with envy a longer well with highest fame,
That they were to break against black head,
Such rightlive thine eyes of thy images thou spend.
Easonry thus doth lie, happy parts change up far a love.
Lookes delight to eternity, poor faith dimrorned sap.
   And, rude off, for things sour December.
  Painting within their possessing, and love of and draw graces for your love.
  Sondaryus stands imprisoned eyes against


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As is frame with by thyine is better.
And me hard bitterness of all of the all,
So very sourmost, who'st thine own praise'st date or slanderies and they live.
Thenakes alone and victing thy lover back your love well;
Bath willfully early summer still to thine,
N'er doth beauty doth read,
So from ill or wounded as thy night.
  Make of memory.
  Drugs true life I all me thence,
  Many be dead and which thou art thou wake this.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
They sounds, and ugly autumn to suakerbingers trimmed are in least, unblets removed,
In thine poaces mine own heaven' prisoner sail doth give;
Hall winter's jaws, strange sest least of time
No, your poor than all pride of absence is doth whitry cannot cease,
Ser sauces in tearissing the little main of summer's drops of dreams in frost,
While, what many for thy sight of your to by love remembered.
  All sweet dignity in dust to ten men at leaves pattern after why be confined.

