--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you desire my foul deeds should ever lie,
For life after that first sight you desire,
All you for this, that fear not thine eye
Reserve for the day by day,
As thou the sovereign of mine eye,
A crow that flies in heaven's open chest
Hath glazed with thine eyes,
So thou through no form of mine eye can prevent
From moving thee here, to linger here,
Duty thus: mine eyes do hate thee here.
  Yet, love, in thy drooling I chide,
  Be blunt and judgmental,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or repulsion?
Or is it enough that I in such strife
Take heed, knowing full well
The mind that doth 't 't so much trouble repay
For that unfair which it affords me joy?
No, if not good, then by no account so.
If it be both a blessing and a curse,
The bastard shall thrive and die, and threescore shall not live
By both sides' lasciviousness and vice.
  Yet, like a lamb, my heart thus mourners
  As if by nature's own willful wrong.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes can view
Or each in his consumptive sweet enjoy
Within the scope of space where he dost stay.
Thou shall not steal thy glass, nor any woman's glass
Save where thou art from among the stars,
When on the blind night thou thy alien eyes survey
And every false painting of thy green back again.
So dost thou steal thyself out of my sight,
And take that churl Death away from thee,
Or else be a steal o'er-cooked morrow,
  For from thine eyes thy infection may take.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I here with thee let off,
And to keep you like a chested uprear
Thy outward to some shady bank,
Who keeps my spite out of view,
That in seeing thee out keep, I win with all my might
The never-bett'ring bett'ring of many,
And by so much am I assailed
By shifting your moving time and me with shifting times.
Thy adverse party, ever so int'rimmed,
Speaks of thee when she chideeth thee out;
  If that word not fixed my thought, thou hast


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy beauteous heart, which in thy heart hath such an interest
Which, whilst mine own eyes are now but doth work,
And all these eyes for thee in thy heart
Are either deceived or deceived,
And some for thy sake hereuntofore.
Thy jealousy is so great
That thou's tempting it to wrong, and therein it gazeth;
Yet, to this alone at the least,
My soul doth rehearse, and in that is restored.
If any need, thy heart thou art the first to bear
  That which wideth this war.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that in thy heart
Thy self thou art so blessed,
In thy breast doth thy sight find,
That beauty's equal in thy glass
Or, say it with thine ear,
Thy closet is no beauty's equal.
So they look into thee, and believe it not
To tuck in shadows their dim vision
And steal thy love's treasure.
Therefore they leave thee out, and keep thee out,
That thou alone dost steal my love's treasure from me.
  Hence their churl hate, and thy beauty's equal with mine eye,
  As the


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That by the time I was once acquainted
With wrinkles and eyed sluttishness,
She will then be unfathered, though buried in thee
Who, dear love, wear the world away,
And her veil will not hide her face,
Nor her dark eyes nor her sweet face
Nor cover the wide world with her rich riches.
Therefore do not forget, dear love, that I with envy
Have stol'n from thee, that I with envy look on thee.
  Take heed, dear love, that, heaven knows,
  That by doth this cunning know when she lies.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou die, then why should I then seek
My help to cure thy malady?
O, seek not thy poison, or poison me with thine distillation;
Find no poison in thine breast;
Dost thou in thy workings sap my blood's fresh blood?
O, no, find thy cold; thy odor thine to sour mine.
Thy adverse party, thy dear friend, might be
My pain thine, which is thy infection;
If that friend thou use, be mine, and thou be true.
  So by all these my errors I am assured



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
The case where five or six lines of the sun
Unlooked for context, frowning on the loveliness
And for the joy of the moment?
Thy glass should I glass with thy glass be,
Even though thou have but ten minutes to kill?
What by ten shall I do for thy sake not hate?
Why should I die if from thine eye
I cannot speak well of thee?
  Lo, be thou mad at the time when I be?
  Be thou the tenth child of ten,
  And from thine eyes thou mayst be my torment.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their pitying salving is my joy,
The joy being ten times happier than the first.
To this I witness moan,
And then diest with happy thought;
As soon as my heart perceives thee I be happy,
I bring in the present and look on new,
Excusing well when they see thee look on new.
In thee I witness call,
With happy thought and with sad ruminate;
  Or, at the worst, my heart's grief be
  For thy sake I send this written warning:
  "Thy present is not sorrow, yet yet thou


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but with thy help they will draw
Great parallels, not at first glance, but upon thy review.
Have I not seen any sin graced by thy largess granted?
So hath my love, then, been
Since first I love thee, then made a twain,
Bound by an unperfect audit;
Wishing thee, then, who by and by,
Commit to bear love's wrong,
Suff'ring me with obsequious discontent,
Making me a lascivious slave,
Serving with rank envy what my poor state thinks.
  But from


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To the burning rack where the selfsame
Doth spend, locked in an almost dry place.
Not with showers but with burning lust
Hath climbed the steep bank and is no perceived.
It is, it is with the rack full of owls,
The batt'ring of every wand'ring bark,
The hungry knife, each with his foul feature;
It, sad as hell, cannot be praised,
Not by praise nor praise but by losing the bough.
Yet this seeming loss, it being renewed,
Hath by wild rage restored; and, with him, defeated,


