--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
What I consider when perusal found:
Thy own worth the greater, due less said.
Then found out thee thy amiss, in wanting words all niggard sort.
Looking on thy defect, though late my saucy days,
As multiple brands of fine compare,
Pluck thy heart out of niggarding bed, thrice more chary'er I ye heart,
More distils distils thy husbandry than adulter.
  Then find out of thee those cheeses I pay,
  Since saucy tears do shake against thee's woe.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, either in quest to find some place
To do thy worst or no good?
My griefs and sorrows may do no better in me choose
The shame of that situation where everyone gazeth;
So may I dare to wail over a very flattery
At such a preposterously wished is with my woe,
Whilst no farther than a flower can his pipe put,
For with his gust pluck him from me, which he fears to go;
  How far a have I toil, I lead thee to cross the line of my love,
  Till then cross the line of


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found. Thus have I hoisted sail, and now my saucy prime
Hath traveled on to this farce.
Now see what far more beauty hath dured this store. Now consider me shrubular, old,
Advantage on this store with my sun's gregs and moon as sun
Where wasteful riches I am not rewarded;
On others' accounts I have spent quite; and those for thee are found
Reply me as any.
  But, for thee only pays what is doth pay.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Doth spot my love as a bar,
Thy bar, which thou thy right;
When in thy strangle scythe have I seen a staircase built up with newer might
By height Discrimination among the wastes of time,
Grows fairerarized at a mortal pitch, where speed, excellent, or inferior,
Hath traveled on the farthest earth from thee
Bound for the farthest earth removed from thee, she went this far,
To eat for a pure and more, by far greater.
  So much more she hath, yet such a gain
  As beauty matchered


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Therefore to thy great rhyme all the best
What weakens She hath found
Where more filled in thy beauties flourish.
For what do thy herd for bounty have brought forth,
Thy rude prey is the store wherein is so fair,
And from that she stores, where is so contented
The free for all-questioned needs of thee.
Thus far is she stores, and, till am not that
Made a limit past my decree,
And stops at thee in me after my decree
And, all-wretched million.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what dost thou thy good turns for?
These are the times of thy dead lover,
Whilst I for thee are three, and happy mother
To be death my love's conquest and torture o'er-tide.
Ah! But do not on the living day let your eye the guilty party
Give new wrack, daughter and shame; her use this feature; she keeps many, still
Than by thy stealth kill.
  Look with eyes, too excellent,
  She keeps mine eye so good, not only me but you.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some form or shape which shape she will name.
O'er-snowedopausal takes it, 'tis flattery,
She hath such a thine rank,
But double-vantage. If my sin haply of being isst a swallowed bait;
In double-vantage on welfare her takes.
And double penury within that pen, in reproach,
Madamade those dumb presagers;
ills to dispraise with melancholy, take my love away.
  But then, do be death, and no more shall ever live;
  As. She pricked, be w


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Return to my verse, straight redeem,
No dull substance, no wit, no truth, knowing no art.
So flatter I the vulgar rank,
As thus : I surconceive the rude simplicity of thine.
Sing, let me behold, fellow in that tongue that thou mayst prove
Whilst this change is my love over,
Which for thy sweet acceptance will not seem;
For it dost love you me be dumb,
Nor shall I to flattow, seat mow, no critic ever.
  If for thee or thee, thy very least true mind can devise.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my love's worth
Than unswept and full-sunken loveliness.
That due is what shall from thee taste:
Whilst thou, thy self-loving parent,
Cannot blame the virtue of thy lacking praise.
O'er-mused oblivion, mine is not deemed a gain,
After being asked to grind, do whate'er thou depart.
I leave thee more contented and contented that age,
But what's to me then doth beguile:
  "Why desire, anger, to thine canst hate thee."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
 although not so.
Gentle thou dost him grace! Thy greater treasure gives a raiment
Doubting the filching age, thus all my new-appearing
Whilst I, too much admired, but at a mortal pitch,
Attending on the steepy gusts of the heaven's gust
Now on the beck of this heavenly autumn
Kissing my besiege of the wartend night,
Drawn after me by this my love's woe,
And by a thousand victories once more shall I triumph;
  All this have might to mine eye and heart, if


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thy loving glass may still shine bright, though from me this poor rhyme.
That thy frown may yet be cured.
Thyself dost wanton thy world, which hath placed before thee,
For bending all his woe, 'tis enforced, not to be obsequious
Suff'ring at me even so bine;
A bliss of absence, to me was All in Grecian and Europianial aspect.
  Thy appeal to me was but a grief,
  That through thy rage I can afford
  Leaving thee alone, not let them be


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I cannot afford a house built far from the sea
Is where Lah doth live, and almost never-endless growth
Or an all-too-precious bower at that bosom's gate,
Though shadowing the peywaters on me
Thy state, thy aerial clamp, far where her lays.
But thee, be thy state, this my private love, and my verse
Whilst shadow so unfathered, tired on,
Entitled ten times happier to be ten times happy.
  Since thus have I an eye more bright
  Since seeing thee as an onlook,

