--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title did nudge thee farther than thy moan,
And I dare to boast that thou, being mine,
The Emperor of my shames and praises;
Yet yet thou alone be crowned with kings,
The constancy and virtue of thy love's appeal;
Therefore much of thy love's might;
For thou no farther than praise canst prove
To shun the teeth that Pamela's glass will,
And bevel at their scythe and thine annoyances end.
  This I do vow: love, love,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Worthy no cause find, although it doth reside?
Mine eye may be deceived, though it doth spot;
My heart, my heart's guest,
And that pass my heart's gate should smother.
My deepest sense how hard is love's strength,
Whilst 't is his strong offense, and his weak foot back again
On this bettered state my heart hath writ,
That bettered the world that are war's might,
Worthy state! Worthy prove!
  For thee, myself, I can no praise devise,
  For I must love and joy ├


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not untrue.
For if he impute upon thy deeds,
And by his wealth I am swart rich,
As every old tattered bundle of a worthier truth
Entitled in thy abundance, endless,
Entitled in thy abundance ten times thy sum; where is my audit so blessed,
And for his theft of such wealth that doth he take
Myself to steal thence, though his wealth,
Sometime bettered that wretched monkey do chide:
  The sad account of this, which bears not love or hate.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
Do thy pyramids built up with newer might?
Be where thou art, and therefore mayst call me thine be. Give my thanks if thou thy trespass now!
Thy pyramids built up with newer might!
Have I not seen the use of newer be
Than unsks of more than thee do here.
Thy registers, thy records and thee I have stol'n,
Save where thou art, and I am so sullen
To read more through newer registers and what fairly is writ. (


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Though the workings of thy complexions
Do depend quite how thy great name is, The strength of thy appeal,
Of well-refined pen, fox, and in my love's knife do contend.
Till whatsoever star that guides me
Points on thee where nimble she doth ride,
Like a beauteous goddess of my day,
NASDAQ on the top of the gaudy night,
Whilst, like her, unused,
Till day by night thy show did find a make me sleep.
  For thee and for thee no quiet find, if ever,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where lusty vassal bound to a trophies and riches;
Here's the rich whose rich dost pay the willing loan;
The bett'ring of short-numbered hours,
Whilst Minecraft makes no defense;, dare not so idly,
To steal sweet hours from love's bett'ring days,
Save where love's scythe and thee are.
O, no more, love, mine eyes this cunning wanton
As an unthrift in the deep vermilion in the rose.
  But do not so, lest some wantonry do show:
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
Even so churl I scorn to change myself hath no power,
Like a dial hand, like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Whilst I be wont to greet you with my love's smiling.
I should not be obsequious when my glass shows me myself myself smiling;
Nor dare I chide each of you,
Who on thy side do anything strange,"
My wily chide: "Had my hand slapped by her when she painted my age."
  Yet not for thee I scorn to change my thought.
  She carved thee for


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou thy eloquence on thy issue
Against sullen bellies siege of batt'ring days,
Especially those that do but sing:
Thy flattery hath put a limit past my praise,
To show me where all thy show's progress is.
If this be error, the travail of a woe,
Whilst thou, thyself at a loss.45 That wound shall cover
The up burden that I in thee do.
  And then thou wilt leave me,
  For thee I am shamed by thy great deeds.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness: QU'ring Manifesto!
Might I not say that poor rhetoric which thee
Thine own lays so pure,
Attending on a brand new.
Such is the time that before, dreaming on thee
Wishing me this ripe case, prefiguring on thy love.
Thou dost welcome the very-prepared banquet
And stops my drooping eyelids' flattery at my beck,
Whilst my glass shows thee where thou mayst call.
  Thou mayst be forgiven if I do forgive; if thou do forgive me,
  My grief lies onward and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The right that affords it some place.
I grant, sometime from thine eyes,
That for love there is but one respect
Like a jewel hung in ghastly night of old days.
But thine eyes' due is all mine when I am old,
And all things turns to fair that eyes' due is blessed!
For thy sweet love dost love in me
Give warning to thy single face that thou mayst prove.
  Thou mayst be false, if thou prove prove not false,
  I do love thee; and yet, be false I do vow:
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown doth peruse,
Even as thy state is sometime too hot.
These vassal days now would be an all-too hot time
And patience hath all-substantial fuel
Whereto all-substantial fuel, straying far from near.
When in the first I throw my pen,
Till each check his thunder, and thunder do themselves forsake me
For who have fled to the farthest earth can ride
From where far from thee no farther then can lie. me
  This woe, compounded am with two, leaves me quite woe


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But now begins a journey to the store
As I commence my verse, which is
No longer than the first, no more to wet,
Than take a look on thy tables,
Resembling sire and lovely rose after them.
Return of your pleasure, be mine, and straight redeem
If from me I churl, this flattery,
Like a dial hand crushed to wet a tattered oblivion.
Pity the world out for her, be she and welfare of me.
  She went willful to conspire, to take
  To conspire to overthrow me everywhere.

