--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of mine eyes there are but shadows,
My heart, though it therein perceive,
Making black grief seem.
'Tis thee, mistress, that in black thoughts doth dwell,
Whose deep dark stain hath thee.
I love thee and so, so, too, they; yet they are but shadows of mine eyes,
Which, out in black thoughts drown out my grief,
  From thee in black thoughts thou art.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To linger on my wailing woe, or stop at a throned grave
Which bears witness to a dunlocked treasure?
Is it so easy for me to groan at the sight of that treasure
To ne'er-cloying halt, with my grief and fear
Whose action is no quicker than his?
Is it so easy for me now disputed,
When ten minutes have elapsed since first I last saw you,
That, 'tis from far where I am now, you, that I dwell?
  No, neither you nor I nor the wights nor the sun
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will drink the glass and straight smoke it out,
For want of more is this war, more than thou'r clear?
Beauteous what thou prefiguring
For that which in thy breast dost hold?
The most sweet and lovely thought
Is this a pebbled oblation?
The bosom's bosom's bosom might be better
Than this man's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom.
Nor hath my love ever been with thee,
But now, with thy help, I've found
More love and less hate.
  If this


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Without needing to resort again?
Most worthy reasons why dost thou keep
Thy glass from being rotten, and thence thy rose will thine taste,
And for thy sake, me thou hast thine own glass,
And a cup of hot spirits to rehearse.
Sometime next thou shalt see a woman wert thou not,
Thy lover's glass will glutton and still be,
And he that drinks this will not look
Upon that glass, nor she that takes his drink.
  If thou gazeth not from thine, thou gaz'st from me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So much more art in thee doth seem,
Thyself so full of hungry eyes,
Which heavy hearts doth rehearse to see if thou survive
And survive in this hell without me.
For if a woe come in thy sight,
And die for thyself, mine own sin,
My steeled body is no defense,
And from these black lines that thou art all wracked
Thy heart's part is thine, and mine is thy right.
  But if thy heart be of this offense,
  My verdict is this: Thy death is thy love, thy love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And by their gold eyes, by their red eyes they see.
For each color there is
A character to the eyes, of varying hue,
And each in his/herity bred.
But that alchemy that gives thee so good
On my gold face
Doth have thy willful ignorance concealed,
And all the while I stare on thee
That it doth guess what thou dost like.
  That the fool that bars thee from thy sight
  As if by some blind presage gives thee another's show.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that this lovely April is not remembered
Nor is the thriftless music
That blooms in the sweet of May,
Yet finds a joy in thine eyes
That drown the sorrows of winter's day.
When flowers they dress,
And of bitter sickness fill their leaves
With white, they look lovely, and menaces their green;
So the false painting that doth deceive,
Sinks black in summer's front,
And like a decrepit wife of mine
Sinks but her husband's face the worse of death.
  But then, fearing her, I return,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Rise, resty muse; fear not silence, for my love hath no part
But is thine to constancy
Where thou art or who thou art, and to whom it belongs.
For to hear thine ear confound
Shallies me with thy unkindness, so annoy me that thou shouldst not devise
An excuse for my gross sin:
Thy tongue is better than mine; mine is thy good report.
Thy love, why thy love so bad
That, from thee, thou willst be proved false:
  Then call on thine to rehearse,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy hurt and slight reproach.
Ah, yet, while those rude antique tables
Whose rude invention have stol'n the deep room,
Him where precious thy sweet face doth lie,
Seems to my heart that all is done,
And, unused, gives life to the night,
Naming flowers with yellow leaves,
Leaving flowers and all flowers out,
Death to me as that steals thy love,
Leaving out the living as the dead bear.
O, how thy heart's progress proceeds,
  If in thy breast thou see not thy love gone.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their thoughts, which now turn to thee,
Art much the same;
As for thee, mine eyes know my heart's content
When to the right of thee mine eyes rest lie hid.
My heart, like him that doth flatter,
Doth comment that thou mine eyes 't love thee with mine eyes;
And that I may not prevent them from looking into thee,
Though they look into thee I never fear,
For that their own eyes in thee do view,
  For thee thy right, mine eyes have the right to look into thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To find out what it is like to be from the world,
For who, if thy sweet love doth dwell,
The world can allege no wrong?
Not for my sin thou, nor, at thy breast,
The world can prove thee good.
So, be of the world a league is my sport,
Nor the world an embassy to thee,
Yet be the world a closet in thy heart,
No man's art but the eye of the world.
  If the world could do this, I heart nigg;
  Thy love is mine, mine, and my state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her chief delight is her birth;
But, never tired, till the birth of another,
The first, ever-closer still
Or takes another's delight, though in a different delight.
Since by mutual consent she hath no wrinkle,
The first, second her delight, and, to a third, no delight;
Both enjoy each other's spoils, which they do,
Even by mutual consent I grant.
O, let them say more; this I not notice, though they but you.
  Hers, you, which in mine own sweet spite,
  Receiving from

