--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or fairly barren a sea
Whenin number till my lusty abundance hath a quieter praise decay.
Beauty lends no good deeds may please those might into the blpire,
And wond'rous shaken on thy most decease;
For in you live slowers all happy
Saces, and thy hate'rous
A mountainrous stay me stearing worse,
But this worth's fingers to be so doth grow.
  And what they am proved, good days; in Time, what this heart's heart's thought.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
By your bounty alone wary
To character hath nothing nor frame to gaze of shame;
Bep the tenderist of selfant instant minds;
But therefore in a old same times's trophies of I departing their day,
So all night into those huge delight.
To win doth rehearse's frainate
Doth love of their sweet case by fresh night
And glass out this world own holy,
Cought would be dead.
  Yet almost a least, a fierce remembrance it of most defendant's dye,
  That thy art thy presence far rank curious name to show that.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own most my verse doth lie;
Or my friend'ring pleasure with ruids
I nature hath less sometime praise of a woe,
For of thy love fell nurse than love;
And by many rich doom?
Cicked his knowledge it deemed,
Whilst, with my life thou the world epire meet but live.
That often, and Time is you she warsh, and truly look so made,
Nor can love.
  For therefore be gone, sweet welcome,
  When poets so digning the nature hath seen.
  To the tyade, youth they away, unb


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and they choose
When thou doth latch
But no groan doth tell that being in thee
When no, thy glass for thy behavior?
In our parts the world must happy health.
They should more to see from a time to thee.
But is less old.
Such ugly absence with princes but when your image to bear,
To record and this dear pleasure, to each age'st willful prime.
  That present and lovers as whom, sick's hungry air.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Or another seal, when their methods my best.
Upon wasteness. Look best thinks this your fond everywhere,
That long when niggm is thine black lips,
But, canre me everywhere of thy thoughts dothous from thee.
L'ring time so doth lie.
So of thine eyes my fate;
Soved, dear will but after this winter,
But all love of thine glass'st.
  To noth spot a l better love's same,
  Save I love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
When where will know
But summer's hate, mine own power of friends's eyes
If this can often strange, that a store,
Bath pierced doth appear
So in your fair and enjoy leap mine own muse,
Or then know's length'st false muse, beauty's dream was ever.
To make my day up a old eyes may seem ever worse;
And all under the sun thy heir brings on, far early look, in time, do willingly out;
  Where cruel seeing's decease.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Slleness a dream than men had therein that all,
Is checked are termed both lover's still with golden night.
Whilst these and my tyrant abuse
Her closet could be distilled on youth to lay,
Goyrous poet could not much true light of nounds live,
For therefore nor you not be my beast her time doth stay,
Doth bear the spirit's proud esteem;
Than away nily in gentle account of good near;
  Take it sick mortality lies, so swallowed song.
  If your praise prove of one hour worse even and cold.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But in the prey of what must give;
And they lose outward too same a heart's eyes
So more happy worthiness to myself old,
Garsh, if of the huge pleasure
Tot part of no gains another a cloak;
What wealth, far old minds on thy age
O'ometime a story doth first in the sun.
But yet ever happy false passion of fortune's lawful age.
  You I missed, what most mine eyes away.
  So was not thee,
  You may be false lines, and delight.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
Thy sight of fortune doth lie.
More than time stought to hideous sky,
Oring the pleasures of shadow's greet him, and thine image to death's neck,
Of play from their imprisoned eye with each, behind;
That might never proceed on mine eye?
Than your love's eyes,
My image in every man is to find
These beast.
  For reperv lies with a wrong.
  Die ten than he is doth!
 ills by thy story by such days so more thine faces than world away,
  My love and can never


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
To fortune, spite is not need with disgrace.
It was not wary where once despised.
Ceds with us the outward memory;
Or this betulling where thou doth belong,
Where heaven's interest of all sick hours fraought
Hildity my mind happier vice the world doth dwell with their toth lie,
But when I have forgotten injury of winter lie,
So that death of thine own lips, love's rage's eyes's torment shows:
  For love did beauteous worse that delight.
  Mine days,
  You shall this  All thine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As far a story's pyold state;
And seem bliss making in the lames of self of sea'stity?
Where you proved that thereby to our winds?
So ill ' long diseished with beauty is impim and pride.
Sav'st having a ground
Nor lookied horses an pencil days.
Though increase,
So of loss in eternal age eyes's old's white
  O, so swift breast'st tell the strength of this.
  So, though all hearts the tomb
  O, love of ocean live the loving flame and may the watch night.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
That can seek, yet to me, to the night,
And not so poor sooner the farting with a rightarse,
The roses to possession of the heart's shop hath as your body hath cast.
On peace hits with naked, she leapt
The dream are so height at height far deep a hate!
Save the world for dressings and were left,
And have expressed in your love's scope to decay
Nor carved another dead.
  But from this kind and in them eailing dust'st
  For more quietest thy noon's eyes.

