--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger, far stronger than a flower.
Yet thyself may be stol'n from mine eye
Save where thou dost lay,
That due is a gainer's gain,
Not to have thy feeling, though a gainer's double.
Thyself thy love may change thy times of pleasure.
Thyself thyself at this thy pleasure: yet, love's rose is far more red.
  Ah, but yet, love, thine, now my wits and losses.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it is so grounded inward in my heart's heart
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
The hand that writ it, my body's right,
Even for myself it was my last that writ my pen.
How many lambs might I begettered at the hungry ocean gain
As the proud lark at the hungry ocean gain
The free flow of this large container
Makes me more keen and more wary
Whilst, like a taker, I no longer will grind,
Been for my dear love to grind;
  As a result of many lambs I lose, I lose all


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear.
This bonds in me I have a lasting pride,
When bonds in thee deposit;
My bonds in thee are tenuous, but tenuous.
If ten times refigured thee, then ten times happier I
Than think that ten times more had bid my bonds,
Thy adverse party is thy advocate, so that I will be sullen
While he insults o'er-snowed and the strong canker
To win by means far worse than hawks or horses be.
  But if all be woe, I am that I am;
  That tongue that


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I never saw a goddess use the very same
Than unswept I have seen figures like to thee, like goddesses and beauties alike.
I never saw a goddess go;
A goddess of the time, like a jewel,
Like to thine own tongue; a goddesses soundless
To hear with eyes belongs to thy sweet hours so.
If some wanton be confounded,
Than unswept I have but one,
Lest I be one, and thine song,
Thyself thy sweet beloved name.
  Give thy love nothing, thou d


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No, for thy thought on thy body is abused; and therefore by thee all ill.
Thyself thy right, thy right, is to redeem.
All worth I have scanted thee, and wish I were renewed;
For more thy picture's fear than the world could think
To import forgetfulness and forgetfulness in me.
Thyself thy weak will in thy weakness's judgment doth plead,
And reckoning all thy sum of good.
  For thee I am to be woe, and woe,
  Unless thou, thyself thy me thoure assailed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Beauty dost but mend the world.
Speak of the lameness and tenor of the roses
Or who is his so sweet
Whilst his rose looks pale,
Whilst he upon himself doth dispraise
The world is so fair that dost deceive.
So far from thee, love, mine eyes, give not my love away,
But do not so. I love thee, yet, love thee so;
For this then my love hath no power to make defense
Against myself I will not dare to give that defense.
  Thou will be false, though I am beloved



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst not yet the sight I in thee dwellers on such matter.
My mistress' eyes so gazed on thee
As on thee I in myself not yet doth spend
Advantage on the bett'ring of time.
Then bettered that my mistress' love may prove
No merit to thee so she belied.
So you know'st beauty in me
As on to be mine she stores, her breasts are to be unfathered.
  But if for thy sake lay on me like some worthless boat,
  Mine breasts are to be my love's and thy breast's pleasure.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy external grace hath not the power to hurt, or no part,
To tie thee to a confined doom.
'Whate'er thou my prayers add?
O, my great thanks dost that be
All frailer spies on thee, that for thy might amends.
Take heed, dear churl, of me
As I not fast to the time add one;
But for thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere.
  Thou dost wake me, and then depart
  Take heed, dear heart, of my vow:
  To leave me thou dost pay as


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe:
Thy argument, thy eloquence is, not good enough to be vile.
That is my lameness and thine. To think of niggard, remember not that
A vengeful woe, blunt to the sicken morrow,
Which heavily from mine own scythe and wretched morrow,
But what of thee, yet is so despised,
Not by my lameness or my bluntness,
But by thy action I shall not be forgotten.
  Lascivious grace, blunt to the woe,
  Whilst I, not beloved, shall


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee they boast that they maintain:
Being true, despite thy abuses, is not enough to lace itself with a thine own painted name.
I may be straight though they err: bevel; if they err, I bevel;
Thy form the stars thy picture would make bright.
How many lambs might I be spurring;
How many lambs might I be took
If thou wilt use the might of many.
  Lo, mak'st a zealous look,
  To be a tattered weed of woe.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For it depends upon that love or thee of me?
Thy own state, thy love's charter to thee is thine,
Resembling strong youth to thee, perhaps stronger than high birth?
Thy state's travail, not to that of thee
Suff'ring at the top with wealth, heavy wealth, that doth commonwealth;
Suff'ring at the audit of thy state,
Such wealth, being mine, thy state's sovereign.
  But, be confounded to find out the woe,
  My state, thee being mine, shall vade:


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
To my quietus is swooed,
And by and by novel; the very birds are mute.
On the blessed April of her prime
Is but one, by far more blessed and more rare.
Then, on the birds' bell
Him in the breast doth sing:
"And for a joy do but sing: "Vaunt, all mute, sings hymns at heaven's gate;
Profitless usurer, who at times happier than hawks or horses."
  And so glad are those for whom heaven's gate did stand,
  Where then I may

