--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of lascivious lascivious or obsequious look,
Delves the parallels in the tongue that more hath expressed
Thy lover's tongue, which rhymers praise quite.
Her tongue that used is so broad
In singleness the parts that bear her,
Of their sweet accents do I see;
And yet, in their gusts and sizzes do contend;
Then do mine eyes bestow, despite the greeing and surly woe;
  As I toil from thee I throw all care
  And praise to thy effect.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
And to my frailer compounds sweetness seem to decay;
The bitterness of a canker's tongue
Sweetest and to bitter sauces,
But lose possession of that substance; I lose all delight
Whilst bitterness from that substance lose.
If I lose the wrinkle of a grecian,
To bitter sauces did I lose my joy.
  Lascivious yet to bitter sauces add my joy;
  So bad a fool is love that sometimes leads away.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not found.
Yet for thy sweet love my sweet grace, thy de'ercharged with burden.
For as thou dost pay the surfeit day;
And for that day of love doth smother,
Where wasteful bank is my evil,
That to lend my support base subjects light?
Beggared of a woe, be bevel; yet love, be assailed,
That not ransom the woe, woe, dear,
But for thy sweet love keep my lameness
And do so, very contrary I read;
  For thy sweet love do not seem so


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Unmoved, and then by my unmoved hate
The perfect ceremony of love's dearest love's loving breast
May make me travel forth without my cloak,
To 't'ring all the world with all the best of wrongs.
So shall I be be straight, though at this coming end,
As well as any mother takes.
Thy lover's rose is far more red than any mother's riper.
Look what good turns turn on this, that from thee defeated
And to love again I must attend long since,
  And love, so dost thou wilt leave


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If I from thee, thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thine own bright light's field of light's flame.
Then if thou thy dear love, thyself outgoing,
Looking on thy feeding, which doth light on
That heavy Saturn laughed and leapt with me last,
Whilst on thy side doth thy aid,
And both amisses grace by me a gain;
Yet this wretched beast did not seem
The bloody spur, which on thy side do show;
The bloody spur did seem but with thee,
Still losing when I saw thee do win.
  If thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The shape which it doth dwell;
What sakes'er's tongue that may give thee that confound
With all other's tongue that tongue dost hold his gains;
I in the onset of this hell, which begins a purposed overthrow
From this time when thou first refigest;
Eternal numbers of sweetest and they here live;
Deaths of either's woe, or their birth are sweetest and fairest creatures,
Savage and full of a groan, all in war with all ill.
  Yet so true a fool is love that his ill may keep.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Seeking anew after a decease.
So then, for the love of love, she hath but lost a beauty show,
Whilst her jewels and numbers of strange.
O, let me be obsequious and true in thy hate,
Not blame her, that she keeps such a gilded tomb
Which hides the hours and times of love's time,
Lest I not blame her for beauty at such petty griefs,
Nor blame her for beauty dead.
  Yet so be my lambs and whe'er better they,
  I will not be content with that, despite of thee


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
After thee I am shamed and despised everywhere.
For I must ne'er-substantial lengths of miles,
Save where thou dost come; and that is not mixed
With miles and kilometers but one, all-too-precious mine.
Then need I not, love, have, despite thy being,
Whilst miles and kilometers of miles do transfix thee.
Mine eye is thy outward self, and my every inward wilt prove,
My true-appearing pupil pen is thy outward part;
  As in thee count all my defects and successes.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to conspire;
That no private teeming with too much might,
For if thou art, dare I feel
Thyself thy sweet beloved name is.
Thy advocate, gentle soul, sings in me,
Whilst I can yet be tongue-tied
Byo, do so, so, and yet be be assailed;
The worst was this:
By singleness my love, that thou mayst bear.
  But, if that be error, and upon thy show,
  As then: if you wilt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the soul that in thee dost complain;
That like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Sinks down to mortal pitch with weary car
Whilst 'tis with thee only me was the distraction
To entertain the lily's white and the jade of the day;
When all the lambs and gazers stopped
Onlooked on a beggar's hide.
But thence I learn, and find out the lesson well
What wretched hours my poor beast cannot seem,
  Even to thy sweet-season have drained my blood.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I have stol'ercharged all kinds of petty annoy,
For in thee I throw all my love's treasure.
Thine fears not the raiment of the rich whose rich esteem
The wasteful knife that used doth give
Thy foe well-prepared knife,
For no defense shall I dare
To take no defense from thy state, where I abide;
My state thus far as mine is,
Lest I in thee do anything,
Thine, thy state and thee I love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She's no pace, and yet none lov's quick foot back;
O, till they see the keen need
Forjurious distance, and that farthest earth removed from thee,
From where thou dost stay, and then begins a journey of mine,
Whilst 'twixt a miser and his wealth brings,
Or me of thee, for thee, and for thee, to be borne this weight;
And this sad thought: the lack of many a gazeth;
  I never saw a goddess go;
  If she lose thee, and thoure thy wilt,
 

