--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in their riot I drown
My deepest sense, which is thine,
As I in the spring, when the fierce
Is with the onset of the year,
Sap checked with frost and with death's onset,
Thy lover's woe, which I in the spring break
Thy lover's cruel eyes, seeing thine,
Divert from the cold and winter's onset,
Reserve, and cherish, and in their joy
Reserve, and cherish, and cherish, and cherish,
And cherish, and cherish, and cherish, and cherish,
And in their joy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To torture him where he is,
Or to ransom him where he is not?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will steal thy sweet esteem, to make me another poor slave.
Thine eyes, now mine, have given thee all my love,
And now my love back again,
And worse hath my life been;
Now, behold, mine eyes have given thee all my love back again.
Now, behold, mine eyes have given thee all my love back again.
Now, behold, mine eyes have given thee all my love back again.
Now, behold, mine eyes have given thee all my love back again.
  Now, behold, mine eyes have given thee all my love back again.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy glass will be glass, and thou mine own glass will be good,
And mine own glass will be thine,
And mine own own glass will be thine,
And mine own glass will be thine,
And mine own self-love in mine own glass will be.
So thou, my love, have patience,
Thy glass will be thine, and mine own glass thine,
And mine own self-love in mine own glass will be.
  Thou, my love, have patience, mine own self-love in thy glass.
  Thou, my love,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy body is full with thee, and yet it fears not death,
For that which it fears not so much,
For that which it fears not so much,
To die for whose sake it fears not so much.
For thee this is thine, and for that I am confined,
Thy heart, which is full with thee,
Sets thee to death by thine,
Sets thee to death by thine, and thereby shall be.
  For thee this is thine and for that I am confined,
  And thou, thyself thy self, shalt be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see but what they see,
Not what they hear, but what they see,
And that they taste buds of the sweet
Dost deceive them that thou dost deceive.
For their part thou dost deceive,
That thou dost deceive not their sight,
That thou dost deceive not their thought,
That thou dost deceive not their love of thee.
For their part thou dost deceive not their thought,
That thou dost deceive not their heart,
That thou dost deceive not their heart's delight.
  For their part thou dost deceive not their sense,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she hath but the means of love
To tie up the times when she should,
Making me the tenth hour of your time,
Making me first your slave, and then your slave,
Serving with your love to tie up the time,
Making me first your slave, then your slave,
Serving with your love to tie up the time,
Serving with your love to tie up the hours,
Serving with your love to tie up the hours,
Serving with your love to tie up the hours,
Serving with your love to tie up the hours,
  Finding


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If any, be of the least of my woes.
I have seen thee frown on beauty which is worse than thine eye?
Or worse than that which is best?
Or worse than that which is best?
O, none but gentle worms, my dear love;
None but worms, my dear love, my dear friend;
And, like a miser, methinks,
I in thy glass do witness
Thy rotten love is worse than thine eye's rotten sin.
  O, that my beloved tongue may well be the better
  For thee and for thy sake no more.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy discontent with thy misprision.
O, let me be obsequious in thy breast,
For thou, my love, who have I not the least part,
Dost love thine when I have the least part,
And, by thy part, I gain the esteem of thine,
But that, by thy part, I gain the esteem of thine,
And, by thy part, I gain the esteem of thine,
And, by thy part, I gain the esteem of all thy love.
  Let not my tongue thus be profane:
  My love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that believe in thee do believe,
And they that believe in me that I in thee do.
For thou in me art so strongly in love that,
As I in thee dost love thee with my heart,
That, in thy heart I grant my love,
Thy glass will not show thee my hate,
Nor the lily's white nor the rose's white,
But, all in war with myself, mine eyes and tongue.
  Then do not my eyes nor the rose's white lie,
  As in the lily's or the rose's white.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To know that mine own love is better than theirs,
For mine own love is better than theirs?
O, but with mine own love mine own love is better than theirs?
Mine own love is better than theirs, and mine own love is more common,
Than mine own love of mine own love being expressed.
Mine own love is better than theirs, and mine own love more common,
So that, in thy love, mine own state I am.
  To this my state I appeal,
  Not to be removed from thee, but to be restored.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From the fierce tiger to the sweet thief's jaws,
Lifts up his heavy frame, and takes a break
To the gentle feeding of the hungry beast,
Grows heavy, and then stops, his heavy frame still
From the wrackful wrack to the lame-potted wretch,
And stops his hungry leap with a groan,
And stops his thrust with a wheedle,
And stops his slow motion with a groan,
And stops his thrust with a wheedle,
And stops his thrust with a wheedle,
And stops his motion with a wheed

