--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence I not loved but despised,
As those with the deep-sunken sun
Doth burn my soul in their blood;
My love is thine, and mine is hate.
They, when they see the sight,
They look but like to the dead,
And the rich in their drooping eyes
Do mock me that I am not half so bad as the rich.
Yet like to the eyes of the dead,
Thy lovers seem to me alive and well,
And they so delight me that I in their wakened hate.
  But when they see the


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse to my love's rage
Than when my heart at once says "This poor beast is dead,
Who, by nature's willy control,
Heeds the seasons' bounty and bears the prey's salve in ambush.
So then I can be both sad and pleased
When in him blood and mud meet,
Beggared by his fear and by his sweet spite
To suffer the bastard's ambush from his ambush.
  Then others for fear of ill will,
  Or worse have done this, worse I,
  Yet none can do much, save in him who bears the


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to waste, no matter how much thy love had it spent.
As for the lease of thy love, thou mayst say so:
"Thy sweet love, thy love's lease is ten times more long,
Than when I was a babe sold in the broils,
Which for that sweet right was never abused.
Ah, yet, spite of thee, I never once beheld
The burning sight of thy love's face
For that which it fears not so much.
  His lease hath invoked a motley of ill laws,
  Which, out of welfare beguile


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or at the least amended in the spring?
Thy glass will be glass, and thou mine own glass will be
That churl Death out of thine when thou lookest on her,
And that churl Death back again when thou lookest on me.
Ay me but thine, that, despite of thee,
Will not put a stop to this hell:
Thy glass will be thine when she looks on thee,
And thou from thy glass will be none.
  As for fear she will put on thee, so thy glass will be
  When she looks on thee thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love's absence, whether from thee or not,
Is suspect, and suspecting of a foul with sour pride.
Thy blind, thy friend hath, and for thy sake hath it,
More than in that of thee than in that of mine,
And in thine is more suspect.
And to thee that trust I so belong,
Thy love thus my friend from thee in this,
Authorizing thy trespass with me,
I will do thy will, and nothing else.
  Yet thou, mine, know this, I do not desire thy will,
  As, I,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in their deep level they sense the air's rich bounty,
And that, like birds in the sweet smell,
In their deep sense the rich in thy smell is gone.
And yet, even to the deepest level,
They see, and, after a while,
They feel, and feel it, which is their heaven;
But, that is what they do know
That doth thy deep sense tell:
Thou art thy deep-sunken earth.
  Thou henceost true that on thy deep level
  Thou art thy deep-sunken earth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If some locked up in some shady book,
With gross envy in some locked book,
The hideous rack where jewels lie hidden
Is an all-eating shame,
And my love's rack in some closet
Hasten by unseen eyes destroys his rack.
No, love is worse than a bad case
Which in the rack of some wrackful night
Is put on the level with unseen pain.
But love, if it be so, it is a hell of shame.
  This is not love's curse, nor her joy
  When that rack is all out.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Disdain on thy breast and me but with thy tongue;
For that my bad report may be deemed,
The worst of all lies in my heart.
'Tis not enough that thou mayst call me,
To hear my tongue praised by the world,
That in thy glass doth my mind deceive.
'Tis not enough that in mine eyes thou art so dumb
That thou must believe that I am tongue-tied
That that thou mayst prove me wrong.
  But that in mine eyes thou must be so dumb
  That the world may see my bad report and hence be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy discontent with too much hate.
O, do not let that anger that break
Harsh and sourest hate grind
Thy fingers with wood; in it
The base of all hatred is found,
The root of all badness and of all goodness.
In the time that follows the year set,
Be as kind-hearted and kind-hearted
As thou who, being born in the present,
Suff'ring at the present with his old woes,
The present disgraced with past wrongs,
 The present disgraced with past wrongs,
 The present disgraced with


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for this sin my love is proved
To wit's end, not by argument;
For if their eyes were filled with the view,
They would with a thousand groanings recount
The painful hours that have gone since thou ne'er seen
The clock that thine eye doth spend;
Then, having thee, they bring forth
A second part of me, this third;
Then are these elements added that have all too short a date.
  Or, if they be false, mine eyes are false,
  And mine eyes are false in thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
No matter where thou art, mine is thine.
The foison that mine own sin holds in me
Is greater than mine own in thee;
The worse is this, that mine is all mine;
The better is that our foison contracted,
Which kills me more than mine own death;
The foison that mine is my fee,
My love being my fear, not theirs.
Mine appetite is my love, and mine in thee.
Our love is what I enjoy,
  To thee I say nothing, mine.
  So thou art my love, and mine is my love,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Whilst, no sooner, no sooner her husband's
Than from the table of mouthed birds,
The clock flies and says 'Here's today's most woe;
This is the day, tomorrow the most woe;
For yet, spite of the clock,
No sooner, no sooner, than she thinks
What a glorious morning it had for a morrow
With hideous nightly showers hath brought,
Even to the crests of dead leaves!
  Yet, despite of this, the maiden joy
  Unlooked on long since died.

