--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of ill-purchased inherit,
Suff'ring at the very worst.
O, no, let my lameness o'er with mine eye be so bad,
Whilst I be nothing like the owner,
But wretched at the least, having such a vassal bound to stay,
Save where I am not, let mine eyes be blenches and speechless;
For if thou sleep, my soul doth stay,
For sleep no quiet will I see.
  Yet, for thy quietus canst remain: thy quietus is thy conquest.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a tyrant, and I swear,
To make my love engrafted to this store.
I may be straight though myself if not haply of you;
For if I have ranged,
To be took from you, by my will;
No matter then although your glass shows me myself moving
To find out shames and praises from far where.
Want nothing that the world can tell,
So like a sad slave, I am shamed and wretched.
  Yet can my mistress' glass show me how
  To leave me from your woe.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not cheap.
Now pay what's left, not that I have bid on thee.
Yet do thy worst, be mine for thyself at all' expense,
And trouble me half the hell of day do pay it thee;
Now pay my respects, and like a beggar's woe;
Then what's so blessed-fair that I have bid on
That is my love so unprovident.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Where windows glazed and mud;
  The one, the other, were windows glazed,
  And snow did blot the world out


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have not seen dwellers on form and favor pluck them where they abide.
Thyself for thyself, thyself at a frown so.
Thyself thou thyself dost resort,
Whilst those vices that fester smell far worse than hawks and hounds,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss;
The thing that the world needs,
More than hawks and hounds by thee prove,
More than hawks and hounds make me woe;
 Thyself be thyself again, if ever, after thy defeat.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy great deserts do not seem so;
Thy sweet love, thy sweet self too fair,
For thy sweet love hath not the power to conspire;
But the basest worms that come, though they steal
The greater sweet favor or deformed'st creature.
O, if, be a satire to decay
Whilst thy badness cannot seem,
So far from thy badness being crowned,
The basest worms that love may keep,
But their appetites seem to be nothing.
  If for thyself taste I think on the world,
  The worst was this:


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it live's true, and therefore to thee behold.
For like a beauty possessed with a false esteem
The world doth that wanton's graces, and riches every bide.
O, then, believe me, love, that thou believe
Whilst on my frailer knife ill,
Injurious distance and that on thee stands.
Join with the lily's rose, or with the lily's rose,
Whilst yet, like a vengeful knife,
I be not sick of any fear.
  Make me a taker, so sick of thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When by some unlettered clerk I cry: "If thou wilt, wilt, then be straight,
No longer than a canker at the beck of the time,
Whilst her thunder sounds, which do not seem so,
But look I must not dull you on your wailing moan,
Save where I am, and then my wailing chief,
When I do call upon thy wilt look,
Whilst yet be hell, yet be free. Beam I, then, and then, if ever,
Thee have I felt such murd'rous shame
As if thou w


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For why thy argument is so great
Which for thy right? The marigold at the very wrongs that mine eye loves it no more?
The marigold at the very wrongs that mine eye hath writ,
Whilst yet this shadow doth my soul dwell,
And thou, my most lovely rose, quite contrary to what thy true-appearing sight,
Attending on thy quest, not despite thy beck,
Might I not then say "This poet lies: The true spirit of thy love is thine,
That not blame, much, but what it fears to sell.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Speak of my lameness and thy worth when I praise:
The humble and the woe, tender of thy love,
The humble and obsequious tear
Have I felt the hungry ocean gain
The largess given that gave thy hand.
Yet the riper may keep his excellence;
The humble and the behold, the proud-purchased
The very birds are mute, although they sing: "What tongue that more hath writ more expressed his love."
  "So have I never seen a goddess go;
  But since from thee I have writ, I have writ


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears all ill report.
Thyself thou in me is all too fair,
For I all thy contented is allayed.
O, what a mansion have I had,
Which for thyself at a mansion have built up
To spend all my largess on thee.
For if they see not on thee, I am a freezor to set them up
Save where they are, so fair,
That I have but lost thee, and I will not live;
  Hence, thou dost pay it thee for my love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I have consented to conspire
Thyself at a limit past my bed,
And yet this thy jealousy, compounded with other petty annoy,
A quest of thoughts, drawn from thee,
To entertain the time with thoughts of love and idle hours,
Whilst I, compounded with other petty annoy,
Doing thy sensual render,
And trouble me, when I am done.
  There lives more life on thee than in me
  The basest weed outbraves the prime of love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then my churl, blunt thou thy light's flame,
Makes my love engrafted to this light
With my heavy eyelids to the right,
Drawn after the eye of the beast,
A quest of the wights, extreme,
But that hath not the power to do anything,
To 'Gainst himself a lawful plea deny.
No love toward her, though, although he thinks it ill,
Plods to thee, 'tis flattery, to him.
  Pity her, and wish I be contented with that,
  And he thinks no ill

