--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my breast thou mock'st my beauty,
For why do I not blushing with my thoughts,
When life's most lovely shade doth summer hide?
O, why do I not do eye-witness,
Or heart-tied youth persuade me
To leap, where the world holds me?
Thou art so churls upon my breast,
And my cheeks so wide as heaven's eyes
That my breast lives to send forth worms.
  But thou mine, and I am thy sweet child,
  And their love doth live in me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or a wand of evil to me whereof it affords?
If ever there is, let my lips sing
Who are more cruel than the wailing jaws of death;
Harsh death let's my neck twist,
The wail that kills with as much rage as the crow;
But be it not noted, that death is not cruel enough
To keep my bones to your strong neck;
Let me be truly proud,
As if thou were my betrayer,
And I in thee so mock!
  O, be not so bold, being done much wrong!
  I will be content


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can haply dwell.
No more thou shalt steal my wealth:
Thy self-same audit I have of thy self-love,
By thy right of pardon be thy defense;
For thy illiness hath no purpose,
Nor is thy executor thy worth;
My executor no trust; for thy trust I am bound to bear.
Be of more account than wealth, methinks, since I am thou chief'st?
Be not so bold, for thou'llst lose much if I should lose thee.
  Thy love is thy fortune, and none but me must ransom thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art most gracious, and most gracious.
Awe thee with thy sweet grace, and I love thee more;
Than anon in this mine mine is heavy grief,
Than in my love's spite.
Mine own frailties do my love cause,
And theirs I love farther than mine own frailties can cure.
Than from thee I can call upon thee,
Where I can write of thee nothing,
And why not that I am so kind
As love's sweet breath to dig deep and dig strange trenches.
  And when I will call thee again, thou


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The thought of thy transgression gives me pleasure,
For as thou art found here, thou mine is the only true witness
Of this place where I may be proved.
Rising up from the earth with that sickle which struck thee,
I have no odor of thee before that cross.
Thy odor gives thee pleasure to think of me;
Thy odor is sweet, but so sweet that thou are sweetest.
  But now is my hour, which thou dost me counterfeit.
  So thou, sweet in thy odor, dost slander me as a thief.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know what the eye doth know,
They know that thou dost transfix when thou wilt,
And thou sight'st that unseen defect in the eye
Which almost decease'st thy art with thy beauty.
Look, thou false eye'st some basest jewel,
Some damasked glass; then thou look'st not the fairest,
But thou methinks it hath all bases,
And yet in thy pure invention art thou.
  To the eye thou shun'st any jewel,
  Thou art the jewel's living husband.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that I in her rude apparel be
But as a woman of flowers perfumed.
But such fears I never with my love nor with other women
Have brought into my mind,
Even that a woe beth, that so rare a wonder
Could she live out a single night
Without me, though outcast in some tomb for a thousand miles.
  Or I might confide that she slept long since,
  Being glassed with the vial of thy odor,
  And when she did I believe her alive.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The fire of hell is no more fierce than thou art;
Thou, like a sad-faced sepulcher, hath spent thy humor;
The soul of this all-mouthed murd'rous rage
Will all but shake the bloody frame of my head,
Until thou prove my love and I shall live in thine fire.
The truth is, that in thy fire I see but thy burn
And that my pencil with thy sharp knife lies hid;
  Since thou so strongly doth it kill me that I cannot say more.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more goodness
Than that which thou most blunt
In broad-edged verse, "The sweet head of sweet herbs."
O, how much more true their content would I delight
If I would review the sweetness and compounds of their sweet
Dost thou so dignify mine eye?
O, no, none. I am so minded, and thou art so sharp
That I do not blunter thy breath with air.
O, let me be contented; thy humor is as great a poet
As the cherubin on my back.
  All other words mine worth could contain,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And to those whom I love I reproach thee
For thy glory, or my wealth for thy sins.
Now if thou desire, I will remove thee,
For thou in my heart hate not so much my blood,
But that my thoughts should dwell on thy sake.
How then can I bear to look upon my grave
As though by a ghost I were possessed?
  Thy living blood doth betray me of thee,
  For from thee I have no living thought.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And this is my fortune:
My state is inconstant, corrupt, and jade-clad.
My nature is tendered, not to change;
For, in my state, whereon all vice meet,
My love and thy love's faults are hid,
My love's faults are enlarged in majesty.
Look what this shows me:
The gracious love of thy kind breeds me on,
Roughing my thoughts, mending my nerves,
Finding faults that thou canst not forbid,
 Finding bright-light errors that thy evil can untangle.
  And thy beauty, no more


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
For she hath done all her part,
But yet she hath so great a tempest
And the fire that needs to be quenched
Crawls the dead mother's breast, and stores it in her breast's hot.
Hang on, watch this, watch that hot eye
Which at this time doth pour out all the blood,
And then all her grief and all her sorrow's waste!
Her head hath such rotten waste
That she's borne captive for ever;
And she in this is so rotten
That the world will pity her so much,
  That thou wouldst

