--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of eyes farther down the toilet have view
Thy beloved bosoms spread with far more hope,
Thy name so beloved, and they mock me as I grow old,
When they see that I, full on war with decay,
Do not wish on revolution, but die as fast as possible
To the bloody overthrow of thy tyrant reign,
Hearing that this fell tyranny now my cry;
  This anon they respect, and behold me still,
  Sometime less tyrannous than when they saw I grow


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that my heart more
Than mine own heart, mine own appetite, knows it better
Than mine own anger at bad injury?
Or th'ore or the storm-beaten bell, when my glass
Is unfazed when pierced with hailstorms?
No, but most strongly believe that my sorrows prove
No farther than mine own sorrows do bear;
For after all these, compounded amiss,
The sad augurs warning my wounded bosoms.
  To hear this divine music the wakened mute
  is to lose my grief.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
Without paying the full ransom of this idiotic war
With spites and stone and lusty blood;
Now, do not, dear love, I forfeit thee
If this be deemed folly,
And by losing thee be found ten times happier
Than ten that thou art found ten times happier
Not having the ruin shame or the thriftless hate,
It losing me when it lose thee, and when it win;
  Yet this my love cannot be so great,
  As men of woe, whether by war or thou shalt win.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So that when her desire I find,
More rich and better blessed than thou?
Yet this is not the time to enjoy her still;
Thy glass will be thine when thou lookest there,
And thou, contracted to a debt, will keep mine eye awake
Even for thine own chol'n thine when out nought thou offend.
Mine own love is thine, and thus my jealousy set.
I send this written embassage,
So that her desire must be remembered,
That thou, contracted to love her, mayst remember thine when thou lookest here


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be not the scythe, despite our abuses;
Whate'er thou then, amen.
Thy blind soul knows that mine eye is fickle,
And that into the spot where thou art,
Will, by thy blind be unfathered,
From thy sightless beast and my affections therein,
Or else be out of your sightless eye,
By moon to sun sight's sake in thy sightless face.
Dost thou, thy soul being in thy blind perceived sense,
Give me thy love and that thou enjoy's right,
Sweet cherub, you know! For sweet


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And why dost thou use
Such a scope with thy largess to comment?
No, I have read many descriptions of thy cheek
And the graces that thy glass gives.
Yet fear no ill befell me if my wise-pied friend
Upon his browed audit prove,
Doth he envy his wealth and is
Against his harmful audit want?
What fears no blot him that now deserv'st  Wherever this sun doth shine
  When sun doth make sun god?
  But thou among the filching wastes of time  Have no pity but hate this,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Past happy accidents do place,
That I for fear of eternal age,
Too base for your comfort will be twain
Or sick at an early date doth moan;
Yet then those present who I enjoy
Look on her like to subdue,
Where haste and barren minutes kill,
That she will be crowned of your love.
Of all the tribes that call her by name,
It is the best that ever I have heard,
And perhaps she some day decease
Even to your left where your praise doth lie.
  "Sweet beauty, why dost thou live,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that same subject hath given thee physic,
Which in thee hearsay sessions
Thy dial hath not yet made answer,
The lovely morn did purposed me heretofore hear
Feed the deaf, be dumb, and loathsome traffic.
Thou, how thy soul dost deceive,
That my shallow breast doth deceive me,
Much worse than the wolf doth in her fierce taste.
Madame, in thy breast dost deceive thee,
  For thee this shall all be doom and me rest.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such joy
As mine own tongue makes hate speech; thou lov'st, oft be obsequious.
Our love, which so strongly is
That when a tear falls on my brow,
Thy gross, profane shrieking, with fullness removed,
Not spurring with spurring; but thou by such moving force can I seem,
Full of amiss, being full of commotion.
Rise, dear heart; this shake is not enough.
So do I blacken the spirit of love with thy good humor;
  Leese, and like lambs doth my dull flesh lie


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my content with their evil report
Needs an answer.
Thy clouds that now divide have thine,
The farther they go, the worse they look.
So thou that some rain hath doth now fell
And downcast earth is now crowned
With bases built up loathsome rage;
When thou seeest, seeest thou mine;
The farther they go thou get the farther removed,
The farther they want thee back, the more far thou grow'st.
  Thus do I see with eyes when thou viewest,
  For my love no farther than theirs, thou


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With others' imputation, that sin's presence here
Is worse than mine, which in mine eyes is clearer;
How many lambs with horses are present
Who on thee dwell in thee whilst this sinful car
Grows in the shade of the sun,
Whereto the carcanet at sunset,
Shifts his or her pace with a fly,
Spending all his or her delight,
Counting no one but those with thee.
  For thee and for me I breed, and in this general we sympathize:
  And for this sin thine, in thy presence nothing,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From her babe-without-a-briefcase her brood;
When our zealous breast did so keep
From frailties of oblivion,
The hardest knife frailer than a lamb loves his sport;
Whilst, scarcely delight, as with the coward's coward's lamb,
Makes her to moo, and leaves out his scythe;
Another time, this time aire,
Thinks well she's made, even so far as she's from thee,
Grows all gazeth, and in her keeps the record.
  And all those who have had pleasure

