--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in their riot I burn
The very same blood that I draw when thou art dead
From this day on I torture,
And, all in war with thee,
I draw niggard lines and straight lines to constancy,
And then they approve
My frailties and frailties, and thine eyes see,
My maladies blamed, and they scorn me more than they hate thee.
In their gross maladies I draw niggard lines,
And, all in war with thee, I view worse the day that follows.
  Yet they approve thee, and I, both


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it is with a grind?
Is it not enough to drown a man in your sorrow?
I am the grave where the dear-bett'ring chest
Is, and Death to me subscribes,
For he that doth this surly sufficed
Is to the grave where buried life
Finds the dead and doth this feast
Divert from the grave where on earth he lives,
Whose presence here robs my life of treasure.
  To be with him this I must be
  To hear him speak, to believe and to believe;
  To


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will steal thy sweet esteem, to make me feel
That he is in my heart as if by heaven there is.
Yet he that calls upon thee, and bids on my will,
When other bids on my will, he is as a prize lodged.
Therefore I trust the lease of his will
To stay a conquered shame, that he cannot steal a wink.
Mine own fears, the fear of other's fears,
Mine own fears the worst, and his own fears the best.
So he that calls upon me, and he that calls upon me
  Not to ransom me but to ransom his love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when she will be cured,
Her wish, her love's gracious spirit will triumph,
And thou, too, her be cured.
Thou shalt, like her, be fond on thine,
Though not so fond, being fond on thine,
On that which can be but by thy use,
Thyself alone shall be the victor and I the vilest slander,
That thou, by thyself so fond are on thine.
Thy lovers shall be thy lovers and they shall live,
Though this be so vile and so vile they will be.
  To this


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine eye is but a motley,
My heart another's shop;
My heart's shop is but a closet;
Mine eye is but a closeted closeted,
My heart's shop divided in two,
Whose breast the painter doth lay,
Mine eye but a closeted closeted sweet,
My heart's shop divided in three,
Which heaven knows ill and yet cannot see well
My heart's shop made of glass,
My chest, thy breast's shop, is yet another's shop.
  Thy breast is another's shop, another's heaven's shop,
  And


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, to the constancy of thine eyes,
Drink up the spirits of the dead,
Lose by the lack of beauty's dead,
Die forsworn by the sightless, and swerve to the right.
Thou dost deceive, thus the wise among us
That thou, to thy taste, mayst be true;
And by that they will know
The truth of thine eyes,
The beauty of thy soul's dead.
For sweet men love their looks, but for their looks they want nothing;
  For that they look upon thee, they want nothing


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That under the false canopy of Time's fickle womb
She must be obsequious, but for goodness knows no art
To be found in hideous errors of Time's bent,
And Time's crooked fingers everywhere.
Yet, heaven knows, my love loves are true
And that every tongue says they are.
No tongue, no heaven, nor earth for niggard truth
But works by Time's false canopy,
Making false all art of age.
  But since her decease, her beauty hath lived
  And thrives on false attaint,
  And everywhere ruined is my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While other have given in thanks,
And in mine own praise spread'st
Like wildfire, to the extreme and in the very leaves;
With other have given in praise;
Without thee, mine own praise hath no name.
But be of the view, that mine own praise is more excellent
Than those who give more;
In mine own eyes it is better than mine own praise.
Mine own eyes I in thy sweet love dost deceive,
And others, in theirs own thoughts I in mine eyes deceive.
  O, be of the view, that mine own eyes have the right



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy ill to feel, that I cannot then be word,
For fear of injury which I in thy sight
Make a league out of quarrelling
To know what, thou mine, I mine;
But, by thee, I have the knowledge
Of all the boughs and grooves which shake the ground,
And thou, thy sweet self, the master of these grooves,
Within thine own stol'n of mine own discontent,
Who for their habitation hast in their droves tired;
  Or, be they tenants or owners, keep mine.
  That is


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they in thee hast the tenor of a rose.
So thou, whether in thy heart or in mine eye,
Dost love me but in thine own sense;
For what is 't love to me that it receives?
Thyself mine own love is mine, and theirs is my love's part.
Thou, whether in thy heart or mine eye,
Thyself mine is thy love and mine is my love's part.
  But thou mine mine, mine mine is the glory.
  Thou mine mine mine mine, mine mine be thy good report.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own sweet love's scope is enlarged,
To three, four, ten, ten, and so on.
Now see what a happy birth
Myself to thee leads
To these adverse hours of time
That time leads men to hideous sessions,
Nativity, eclipses, eclipses, and Death,
That Time and Nature for this inconstant Time doth deceive;
Now see what a happy birth
My love and thee lead me through the night
To this twilight, where Nature for this inconstant Time doth deceive.
  Thy scope, thy abundance, and this inconstant Time d


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then, having traffic with the wretch,
She distils from the delight, and makes fast one,
Gets down to the grind, and wastes no time;
Sets up with the wrack, and stops in his progress.
The sad accident that wrought
The siren that had fled,
Doubting death, stops and gives no joy
To the thrall that doth sing,
And straight from the mouths of men in this war
Calls on him and tells him where she's going;
On him, of all men at war she woos,
And he gr

