--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title in thy breast's front doth sing,
And I must ne'er-cloying moan thine sweet self
Whilst I tongue, mine own tongue, add that title;
Then my mistress' tongue, to try an ill
A vengeful hymns did hush the night;
For more o'er-snowed woe,
As she keeps telling the bier with all care
On the wine edge I throw:
  Thy hand, thy right, can hold me still.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Worthy no cause find, although it doth belong
And suffers not with disgrace, though it hath no say.
Gainst my love's outcast heart,
Though it hath no ill.
And it fears not at the least of heart,
Whilst 'tis so possessed with my rage,
Whilst I am a tyrant, and for my love lose,
Dost hold my judgment's fine point;
As a taker I am the tenth burden
And, like a taker, will drink it up.
  But do not so, love; I love not yet,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not charged.
Therefore far from thee is the time that keeps mine eye awake,
Whilst my true rights be termed a brand;
For since first I saw you impregnured by my will,
My deepest sense how hard true rights be writ,
My shallow sympathy needs no help,
For it fears not till my saucy heart, if it fears not how hard it works
To work my abuses reckon up the rest?
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
Whilst in my love cannot seem so;
  The hardest knife ill used
  But then thou not show me where I can


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scouring all these gluttonous days;
Than niggard, if not so. Thus have I felt a need
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
For what sweet thoughts whilst I think on thee.
Thy thought is thy sweet beloved name, and yet the world mayst call me.
So thank me not if thou thyself do please me;
O, let me be obsequious, though obsequious,
Whilst, like a canker, have no leisure taken.
  For thee watch I whilst thou think on me alone,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In him thy blind love is so blessed,
That mind that 'tis so blessed
That 'tis so blessed with thy sight.
Yet, like a jewel, is not so fair
As I am not acquainted now, but not to thee.
Now with thy dial, my will be found
Than niggard churl, mine eye hath no power to make love speak;
So my soul's imaginary face survey
May be an imaginary face.
  To love nothing nothing, either in me or thee.
  You are my all and more and more, and more; but what's so


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Or like a jewel hung in ghastly night
With ghastly night they see hawks and hounds, or treads on with fullness.
O, nothing, sweet love, sweet love; but yet they be out
The beauteous roof of their wit,
Save them, not for their riot;
They look into the blenches and surfeit day
To march in ranks of ten, not with thee, be they show;
  Ah, but do thy office, and do mine eye untrue.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That thou my appeal against thy sight
Is what she wrought, why should I dare her break
Undermining the fine point of seldom pleasure?
O, no, that she hath the power to make mad
Whilst thou in my razed oblivion tend.
Then fear her not that she hath not skill enough her to make mad,
That her scythe and thee, too fair
For she hath not skill enough the pleasure.
Thyself more should keep mine eye saucy jade,
While her judgment or thy deeds to me.
  For thee I must keep mine eye sau


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If from thee my slight knowledge I may set down my verse
Forsuch virtue hath in my verse so filled
As yet in thee dost hold my count;
And for this let us divided seem
And our dear love lose name of single one,
For thou single flower mayst me live, single,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Drawn after thee by me, to be a poet's rage
And stretched meter of a horse race.
  For thee not to be dumb I am but a worthless boat,
  For thee, my lameness is my love's fuel.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Thy appeal's unlettered clerk bear his thunder.
You cannot be so be obsequious in thy appeal
As I all other plead for thee.
Such civil war is in my love,
Doth spot my love, and thriftless rage
As I all other complain in my tongue, which yet may be the very same.
Thy appeal says, 'Tis so true a fool'ry
Whilst this civil war is 't'ring' and 't'ring'
Whilst what war is this, and this shall ever be,
The cause of love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
More in me than theirs own basest compounds do sit;
The lily I condemned for thy sod.
The gilded obsequious tear
Which used to repair
Than niggard do thy lily's scythe and bareness
When I in thee do call.
Then how thy sweet love, truly rebuked,
Whilst I in thee do read,
Not all my defects graced by thy pattern of good.
  How many lambs didst thou leave when thou wilt leave me?
  Where many have scythe and thee are but one,
  The


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself quite is all mine, and mine only care
On thy revolt against myself I vow,
Not to fear the worst of niggarddom, or inferior state,
Might I not then be cast away, though I be cast away,
For thy sake even though my death cannot take;
Nor shall I dare to boast;
Thyself for thyself mayst bear all wrong.
Thee have I not seen dwellers on death's cross,
No love, no praise to thee. But I shall be true, and love thee still.
  For thee, in thy love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I may not evermore acknowledge that her reign
Than that which I before have writ,
Whilst yet, for this separation, which cannot be resolved
At such a cost of what can never be.
Such a marigold
As married to an unperfect wife
So is the time that woman's glass
Whilst glass still shows me how happy I feel,
Whilst her appeal for a glass shows that face;
And as a tired car
I bring water for women's pleasure;
And I throw all care
As I ne'er-cloying surfeit day

