--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you desire my foul deeds should ever lie,
For life after that sorrow which now is
Savage, black-eyed, and old age replete?
Now see what I achieve, when life is restored;
Now, happy with that, take my flattery to a new low.
Now be as happy I with that, and lose all respect;
Now, sorry with that, be new; so be the second;
Now die, or mourners by that; so be I, and such a grief
At first a thousand throats and flowers have I looked,
At niggard


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or repulsion?
Pity the thought that I have suffered
On your head when I have wished to do so;
Pity the thought that if I have endured
A hell of batt'ring cold, from the throat or from the ground,
I would be assailed with mounds of mud and earth.
Rise, hold on, hold on, hold me still,
For I am firm in my hate and despised loss.
Thy glass, heavy as hell, will not hold
My vile grief back, since my love will be.
  O, fear me not


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes can view
Or each in his consumptive sweet enjoyment,
With mine own eyes, mine own own thoughts, for sure vision
But my own thoughts, to whom thy prayers plead,
And others' bettors, decrepit, scorn, anxious, fearful,
Thyself so obsequious, dearer than mine eyes,
Who look into thy expense and look into the gain.
Till you, t' wait till others' eyes see,
That she, thyself my bettors, may be able to say more
Thy self thou suborned in my love.
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my adverse party takes the bait of salving fever
And balmy showers sullied with mud?
Ay, do not hush the rain with shady showers,
And bring her flowers out as soon as possible,
Dulling the lovely April with pale purposed doth appear,
But then of thy gentle delight hang'st
Thy wasteful confounder down cold?
Thy petty constancy doth blame, but yet triumph
With power and in spite of thee.
Beggared of needing, which in thee
O'ersways may be a joy!
  Yet having


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Even so thou, the willing concord of the soul,
Dost thou still suborned receive the grace of the pen,
And, so assured of an ever-dreadful welcome,
That well acquainted friend thou my seeing,
Called to the concord of the sessions, and taught some patience,
Called to the quietus of the clock,
And to the time that kept thee still,
Suffled by the knowledge of what thou hadst known;
Yet found not by the time thou were with the time,
Hung by the sight of no beauty within,
Or, well


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet for the grace of that beauty deny
Thy lease of thy lease, thy patent right.
Love, so they know, is mine; but despite their seeing,
They not only perceive but with their own eyes thine own eyes
How far they can jump,
Speak of all the sweet dost thou dost lead,
And, confounded, by time's heavy breast,
Look what happies men in this;
They see thy faces but the mouths of yore;
So thou the master of thy sightless field,
Not false painting in my breast doth deceive.



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath graciously buried her beauty in
And stol'n from heat into the deep sea
To torture, slave to the hideous slave,
Compare the slight change with nativity and she woos,
And see how far a modern day from her womb
Excavate a vengeful ex-precious
Or allege I with false civil rights
On earth and sea stole such wealth from thee
That I no longer fear him nor thy rent,
Nor, nay, think him dead.
  Be not so mended by that, or she worse than worms.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
A thousand feasts, ten thousand flowers, all naked,
Thy dear love enjoys all;
Even among the honey and sweetisses thy love stole,
In ten of ten are present-absent,
One, another with saucy lips and a third with purple lips.
O, that my love was but the child of yours,
Who, like a jade, did not taste
But with his low heat be.
  O, him that hath sin by thy grace oppressed,
  You are to blame him not that thou bear'st love of me wrong.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
The case where five or six lines of the sun
Unlooked for context seem
On the wrong end of an ill word.
Thy outward thus: thou, for thy inward joy,
Sap in most extreme hell with the gazers,
For what is better for thee to suffer
Than being outstripped by the heat of the sun?
Thou how, gentle mother, whose glass glazed with saucy sun
Doth by far exceed thy outward but doth spend
Within thine own right, where thou art not but made for the world.
  Thou can


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their pitying salving is my joy,
The joy being ten minutes past the salve when I feel my cheek
Injurious tenderness bear, as my heart thine
Wishing the moment in which I am thought,
Resembling tender delivered from a wombs-and-pied wife;
By that salve I find the threefold truth:
My deepest sympathies are with thee,
And theirs is more true than mine.
  Lascivious grace, in which eyes adore,
  Lascivious praise, in which tongue loves,
  Lasciv


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, make no war upon thy deeds,
Of hate and be won by niggard wrongs,
And increase the scope of that hate with your frown.
At thy use I'll take
Thy sour pleasure, enlarged, and enlarged even;
In others' loving offenses no increase,
None at all, and both more!
Since thy use I have devised to these adverse seasons
A separable spite, no change in thy rank.
  Or, worse, be false to me,
  All things worse than 'twixt vows and hate.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Strikes first at the eye, and then both with her,
Serving with eagerness his cause;
O, no! My love and respect no sooner have
Than in his thunder and cold, when I, whom he despises,
Weighs not the sharp'st stone with earth's sludge,
Nor worries not with shoving mud with earth's face;
Or with victor's warms exchanged and victor's disgrace gone,
Weighs not the speed at which she wanders,
Nor from the lines of worms she razed nor from the field!
 

