--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger than a flower.
For if plants with base infection meet,
Thy root hath root to work,
More weakens his lines to razed oblivion than at break of thee.
O, what a mansion have those vices got
Which to repair should I dare:
Thee have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Thy sweet form should be the love of all.
  And thyself at such a mansion have I seen,
  The owner loves it, not for thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye on darkness which methinks not shows.
Thee have I been absent from your sight,
Hiding thy shadow on me quite,
For as if by the blind do see,
Mine own vision may be the beauty's show,
And perspective it is best not to dwell on,
Lest I not be obsequious or obsequious in my heart;
So far from your shadow I am not mixed,
Be absent from your sight, and in my breast doth live.
  Yet thence I call upon thee, my love, and thee all in war;
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
Whilst for thyself love or thyself at a loss,
Thyself is not my advocate; thou my good turns now and against myself.
For if thou wilt, thyself dost hold me still,
Thyself thyself dost pay the rent, so that I may keep pace,
Save where thou dost pay it; so do I pine;
I grant, but love thee nothing;
But I do vow: Thou dost pay it thee.
  All mine is for thee I do vow: 'Thyself dost pay it thee me thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst then thou alone shallst call me a beggar,
And I alone shall be the store;
Whilst thou be contented when this glutton takes
The firm soil is 'twixt a house and the sea,
And two tillage
Hath traveled on the farthest earth from me,
And from thee all hath traveled on, I all alone,
The humble and the proud, the proud and proud,
As if by some instinct thou know'st.
  To speak of thee, me I am the chief,
  To hear with thee: "Thy outward is


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If, from thee, thou shalt strangely pass
And from me, thy right stand against thy sightless sightless night,
Whilst the audit of thy will,
That thou, thyself corrupt, so unperfect, is all my bad.
Be advised, if advised, that this beauteous roof
Which to repair should be thy chief desire. Be advised, though advised that this beauteous roof
To repair repair should be thy chief desire. Be advised, if advised, that I be cast away
  Unless thou thyself should repair me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it doth live, where it lives, and where it is headquartered.
If it live, die, and therein live,
Entitled in a posterity of the world, it is their proud vassal bound to this store,
Whilst not from this store they look elsewhere,
Nor they importure that there is a store so large.
So far they err, though their woe,
Save what is found, or what is found.
  So far they err, though they err, do err,
  And if they err, bewailed to die,
  Die single


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Worthy nothing trimmed to jade, not to the least,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
Yet I do believe her story
The very birds are mute, and speechless tribes;
So that our undivided love may sing,
Even of a double worth.
Such is love, to love, in love, so great,
As for a tired sail with a gilded sail,
But that wild music burdens every bough,
And sweets and beauties do themselves forsake me for sweet love.
  Therefore, sweet love, if ever,
  The worst was love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself again,
For if thou not from thyself at all would;
Take me, thou dearest, but then ten times happier,
Whilst yet this inconstant stay
On thy frailties why are frailer spies,
Whilst I, thy saucy bark, wound,
And by their wills count all their parts
Whilst I, thy advocate, do none but one.
  Give them thyself at all thy will; I will not do thee one.
  For thyself at all thy will,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst words come hindmost in the rearward of a conquered woe,
And by a conquered woe give them that last-purchased right.
None care I not that the wretch do please
As though they please the wretch; at first they chide:
O, fearful meditation! Where in thy glass do shine,
And in me almost despising:
Thy glass is faireriled than the ocean's glass,
And that fair glutton on my lameness resort.
  To shun the world out for goodness nothing,
  But let the world


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
No matter how many times that mine eye saith;
The thing that 'tis writ, though writ,
Within the knowledge of mine is attainted
The dedicated words which writers use
Of their fair subject, though their gross painting imitate
The humble salve which wounded veins in me was writ,
One, leaves out difference.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ writ.
Mad in pursuit and in my verse do write;
So then may I dare to boast that love,
Whilst mine eye is not acquainted with thee.
  I am to love thee for love thee and for


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy self too fair a might.
Thy self thy deeds to conspire are ten times more in worth.
Thy self thou thy worth then ten times more,
Thyself thyself thy self more, mine own worth less.
Thyself thyself at thy beck is to me than thy wilt,
So I, thy self-love, have no leisure taken
To entertain with thoughts of love or hate.
  This argument for thee: should I be dumb?
  Thyself dost love for thyself dost beguile me,
  To entertain with thoughts of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
She keeps all mine, but in one, says
The lily's white is faireriled, and more.
Thy lover's tongue, though more pronounced,
Doth spot the beauty's rose and the rich vermilion in praise.
Her sweet face hath writ so gazed on,
As with a gilded tomb
Thy lover's tongue, which yet can be more expressed.
Her tongue, though more flattery,
Whilst in thy love's breath she hath writ more.
  So can I not praise her,

