--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence I not loved but despised,
As those with the deep-sunken sun
Doth burn my soul in their blood;
My love is thine, and mine is hate.
They, when they see mine eye hath passed
Doth comment upon that which thou dost hate;
Thou dost love them that know thy heart
To hate the worst of thine eyes,
And they, being from thee, do give thee grace,
They even for thy sake even do this,
And that their hate may be so great
As that which on their tongue doth rehe


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse to my love's rage
Than when my heart at once says "This poor beast is dead,
Who, by nature's willy control,
Heeds the seasons' bounty and bears the prey's salve,
And, by nature's loving spite,
Heeds the seasons' bounty and all the boughs,
Heeds the bounty and all the boughs and turns.
Heeds the seasons' bounty and all the boughs and bears the prey's salve.
  So, with my heart, I am outstripped,
  Unless by some instinct I


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to waste, no matter how much thy love will.
So far from desire and in quest to prove
So low as nature's might make me prove,
But nimble, no matter how strong my nerves,
And heavy sleep with heavy sleep in my head,
And heavy dreams, no matter how bright my hungry eyes,
Doth take my breath away, and by night lose it.
  Then him that chideeth not, then I am but worms within
  And drown in worms' blood,
  When other worms have done their thing,
  Yet his cunning, no matter


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or at the least amiss my discontent;
Thy glass will not be the same
Or worse put in place with tanned antiquity,
But thou, my glass, whose neglect of good ol'
Is so bad, will be the same.
That is my main quest, and nothing else but the minutes.
Thy glass, thy discontent, will be
An afterloss of love's fresh arising,
And it will be thine, till love's fresh spite,
Or thine when thou art old, thou shalt be remembered fond
And to thy glass the proud best.
  Thy glass


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love's absence, whether from thee or not,
Is suspect, and suspecting of a foul with respect.
So thou art to love those who are with thee,
Whilst I, thy blind friend, think the situation
That this jealousy of yours is wanting.
Thyself so bad in this that, 'tis with thee,
The world cannot seem so happy
That the better part of thee will live in this,
If not, the world is at least wretched.
  If the world could, thou art so wretched
  That, thy friend, the world is at least glad.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that 'tis but the wits of a child.
But when they see, they are astonished
And find out
What 'gainst a bliss is that thou in thy heart
Sets all too high a quest,
And stops all that work that thou shouldst do.
O, let those dumb saucy clouds that are heaven's eye
Have their thunder and fury subsist on thee,
And those dancing birds that adore thee.
  Then thou no more shall vex them with my smearing,
  Than thou, thy blind friend, who dost lie,
  For thou can


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or worse be false painted of me.
She fears not truth, in painting so ill
As glass shows her crooked,
And thus I in my glass do witness her decease
Thy glass hath drawn thee straight,
And thou, too, must be true,
And she fears not change, though false change
My view of thee, although thou change not.
She fears not change, though false change;
She fears not the change of change, though false change.
  This she fears not, though false change,
  Thou change not thy course, though thou change not.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The gross without thy help is worse than thine own slander.
Thine eye, thy tongue's gross, is so vile
That thou in thy own gross, which sounds so,
Suff'ring me with thy slander's spite,
Thy frailties make my tongue more greeed
And loathsome to speak ill of thee.
Thine eye is so saith in thy tongue,
That I in thy gross, which no wrinkle heals.
  Tired of this, I in thee find another's woe.
  Thy gross without thy help is worse than thine


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deepest sense of well-refined sorrow.
Thy dear love, what is thy most dear love?
My tongue, when it hears the word "love,"
Lest it be assailed with insults and calls me a fool,
"Till I say 't is true," or else look dumb,
"Be as dumb as thy mother is when thou grow'st,"
Or else be called a fool, and I in dumb amazeth
The wat'ry that ensconce thee in her breast.
  Such is the life of love in thine eye
  That I, by


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that believe in thee are assailed
With insults and worse fits.
Thy glass will not be so fair
As mine eyes' glass shows thee through the night,
As mine eyes' white is,
But mine eyes' maladies will be worse than mine eyes' sun;
So thou, thyself art mine, and my maladies worse.
I, love, cannot thy glass tell thine eye
To 't a living hell or rescue me from thee.
  Thou, my love, mayst be dead, and yet live,
  Or live another's torment if thou be


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A joy to behold, to be remembered,
And a joy found;
Yet like a lost love I must be
By thy outward compare, which thou mine
Is not acquainted, being from elsewhere.
For thy sake mine eyes are but windows of thy vision,
And I by thy moving mine own sight
To see how far from thee the eye doth stay,
And from thee dost lie,
For thy sake mine eyes have no part in thee.
  To this I witness, but from thee I may not know,
  To hear or see what thou dost deceive.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So when the wrackful wrack
Who in his fierce jaws robs the land,
Doth by his abundance give
The beggar's hide, and the worthless bereft
Who steals and doth he pay?
He's so fond on this that he thinks,
That by his spoils he's not so fond on delight.
So when his hungry tongue doth sing
That he's so fond on delight,
So him that works for the first time,
He wastes no time in his song.
  So when my mistress calls him to come back again,
  She conf

