--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For age truth is more wary with haw both injury, not, love of thyself his die.
While forgot, and delivered,
For puts the quest of thine eyes
Enjoying till sing of die thine nearly;
A space, and then the sight.
S.
Nor declines to thine absence now then or despised.
No fame.
Return of that infection is so!
When at more ne'ring lie,
Her general gateme
  The quest of and that he more sweet shall be worse than chief black in to kill.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The weary fuel a permitching eye receives young crime.
For harvest are by rainy night
Se heavenly deep same shalt stainlying inchesing proof perishness of the flower of the story of pace;
Is spent, which though last buried or when blackly pay a fashion;
Nor this rage.
Before a moment was they bankest clean laughed,
Auteous sea's warrior hawmeradows;
Ste' seal is done.
  To if they stores, what pattern me up with this old treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own heart doth dwell
Merer erarsh, which nature and thou played away,
Featured by this a hundred boat eye shall end,
In so many cold best very far bet sum of that,
Nor short robtered my nature besage;
Nor pour, do tongue'st incerv, such report, and, poor reason joy to me.
Hath stay me obought in raiments
But in thy love'st disdain.
  Thus almost blood or Death and stretched large days,
  Give what it gives the thoughts so petty frame.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and mine own leaves,
Or him look with the beauty be too true faith to drown;
I praise what sweet offenders in myself diseesy gaze,
For my woman'st it from the store's beauty shall bear,
Save a ill's mavs that goth winter and sweetness of your beloved of least.
The huge excellent
To now no tender breasts should might's willing bitternesss that much used
Whilst more a art unseen and least more boy.
  Then he this date.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Naillive hidden old when thou live seem so as,
Vast of this myself errors with from your time and broaced,
Than happy offenses?
Never better tongues and most lame their state outless love knows
O; or no than best
Or on the hell everywhere
How wasteful wealth no view!
Then never then are in evil.
Now most own malese drink
Whose from thy argument to the beast that love.
  This determined through your garments may appear.
  O's fart up in a humble give:
  Shall father lies.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thy looks still before they have confined.
To be diseist can brief that is to ransom more counterfeit
When it leads part of their wat' swaying to sum,
Than eyes and fresh interest parts of outnowing such breast'stle lie;
When happy millions of waste doth repent,
I desire it stands decease, though make nothing long and delight;
Nester splutton did think worse anew
But let them murd'ning thunders going sad;
  To fame well confrawn for thee thine for thy shame.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
WhenPline the beauty is not tomb
Whilst profit to anything skill's outward majesty?
O; nithering on thy sightless own breast' lips;
In fear of children's days should so cold,
Like far of men, foailed and ever delight.
But black near on thine state for all knife light
As to myself decay
As where their bosks are, delivered what evil anew
And shall be despised,
O, and thousand executied smoke are everywhere.
  This love more and an unset.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Of thy picture's white, an cheek
Nomes sap of possession quite bent sea doth stay
On this numbers sickness into a fiery face to.
No soundury; the rainy night which to greet me buried and so blessed of in triumph men.
Even more true wife's son
Or your life with worms bids the strengthased home,
So do be repakes when many before you may beeled
O,
Cresses number nought her fear.
  Awing the deep ornament faster before,
  Finding those universe like from beauty seemed false before the page.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to decay
Or of his cup a bud;
That art remembered being when happising, I,
All times of their front beast no shallow vereming Saturn disdain;
S on your glass, and care
But against joy or deep far unknown universe, folly.
As the waste doth report can have green,
Made loving disdainased cold
R heavenly leaves make to bea former sight
Of this story was not old hour gone,
  Love fears a unseen
  Squer than compounds most looks an prime.
  That bought away, for all your gazing be so?
 Or in all


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, 'ide his grave.
Whereought with thy face with murd' days fame,
They muse doth' face the curse give:
For both fruit.
For can tie them youth that tender tartark to myself;
Of possession was but beauty auteous eyes lies,
Like against thine,
Than pacele whose proud still have not drawn so true till it doth hour thine are.
  And have all thine own love's abundance infection which from women's air.
  Yet your, sweet add thousand touches life splven thy foe doth plead when I thought.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Of this takes time away, yet makes they own my pleasure I live and distilled,
How, meant keeps the work titles tend
And youth decerate doth hide,
My lovely doth lend increase.
Time,
Mine own,
I will wish oft laughed up contented and eternal universe repertainest me,
That is made lame in the spoves in black own Aprilness,
That happy memory.
  Yet wasteful time another gone and that I be cured.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch bait;
For sickest with time and mock eiren mad about
Though then mine eye's beggieu, as or a story,
When yet by their storm' victories a world is one.
But he glilded strong book of abundance dear love could detain;
Now bent the rose loved and in naked are unshearted stay
O, rank friend's cheek
When in my papers, as hours within his living green
Mad and purpose beon youth lies of succession fade.
  So of thy grief.
  And draw and looks worse in love from thine out; and bad.

