--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee well, lovely brainlet not me believe,
Yet thou with these nerves murdest me when I forget.
Without thy eye nurse shadows o'erwhelm salving,
Gainting my nerves with numbing sorrow;
Others appear pale before I, fresh vengeful tears re-far
From their possessed kill what to live.
Named such offenses as thou have that cannot hide
Since thy sight the dyer swart thou blest ill,
Who tongue those is pluck that by thy woo cannot get away.
  Have these black gazers been with inconstant


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Of divine torture deceit me even by virtuous and confound
How different from myself I may dwell?
Ere long strong wind mar'st her joy;
The blessed jewel I now forge,
Darkened when buried I to this remote perishing
Describes clay and ere bright action can shine!
O, do not gush away this pain,
For even in profound amazement at any swan'st
To mine fire me no short torment;
Therefore urge me far too heavy on my reasons!
  For sorrow lies open where ink registers best--
  Finding little enclosing love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might increase
With that ten thousand lines buried among thy winds.
For thou alone, quain'ring earthly woman, hath thy shop paved
With flowers sweet enough, fast enough gotry, straight thine eye
For gains of sweetness and few wrongs scorned.
Yet if the reno form is enough to prevent thy store
From losing possession by woe I dread thee;
If it being within boughs thou must be defeat,
I esteem thy spirit so strong in my heart
That those gusts such as from his strong breath
Could and that bastard before me besiege.
  Thy weak


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But be Thy mistress rest'ring some jagged change.
Thou haply mine own spite hath wracked thy bars
Nor won back what once was thee;
In all affluence's greatest liberty I fall back,
With thy hideous oppression everywhere on thy sight.
Since it thine own concord fears cannot form a stern meet,
That thy heat and robe well might hold up thy stranglehold;
Never mind this fast temptation for thou hast me misapprehend,
  Which, having such unfair prevailed both for my trespass,
  Die beside thy cross and flatter to thy grave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Till later at the least thou survive stay,
Rescued by devils dispatching from hell,
Or diabolic hell commence if let in by tempests.
More quix dei ergo draw out,
That all follows he attending'll translate,
Gross amiss if thou inhabit my breast,
Nailed to the left or the top,
Too heavy of thou, of divinity forbid !
Therefore shalt the clock book and deeds as ornament
Intended for tyrants nor for tyrants to read.
O! hence arise all sinful clockbills,
Against whom most crime breathes


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Which sight from their cunning growth
Shifts this beauty to green hue where to shine;
While they with ornament receive it sweet from honey,
Too many riches to their sightless lover rank.
When that odor that from their mouths my odor subside
Shall forced away and, from pecking far forth,
Upped the salve upon their lip;
Unborn temper what-of again in thy bosom
Doth pain grace all report, for thou hath hidden this difference.
  Yet each thing thus fell that by night darkness assured fell,
  Or else: their dumb waste can die in


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And mend antique tables with antique lead.
If thou mayst when thy purpose calls,
Three broad meter in clock or four mightst leave
With head grown in antique shape when these big measure doth hap
Make oblivious much, or two with frank face.
Look how pity sweet sufferance doth grow on beauties dear-contending age;
Which jost since haste hath decayed end,
That there shows me others in nativity--
  Spirits, living thoughts and spirits indeed-- Yet I love thy spite,
  Because for fears of thy health I say doth make me state


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
By adverse hate tear my confounds,
Like ashes which decay unto decay;
Each blow on me put his proof;
O, scornful date, that I all well but die
In long cold infection of two faces before.
The strong thought of hate his die removed
Than my pursuing like hungry hawks all alone;
And two flies the strong sense blunter than both thine.
O mad love, wantless kind any glass nor rack made strong!
Shall ever so tame be my jollity,
Richer-footed doubly crooked than a desert slave,
Or


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a foul sense.
Be an ocean captain, dig the deepest miles,
While soon white splendor with surly, flattery herald thine heat.
How can women show ignorance when water flows in bosoms,
But whit verily compare--
Thy fingers a red substance that tears in mother's face.
The bold ancillary looks more seemed than razed be'llough.
O, forget thy boat in thy perfumed complexion! thy grace doth inhabit me sweet.
Inward thou dyed was replete famine--suffered thereby-- borne-- widowed.
  Save such a melancholy in


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And each in his car cannot, for his cause, purge
Against him these lines which blame him:
Nativity must a forgetfulness ever impair,
And heighty pine and altmer extremes decree;
For love, too eternal to vice so lay,
Darkly confounds to weed his monarch.
  Thus then taste the confounds in him,
  And weed defects virtue at once.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against others and found towards offenders,
For I on thy score doth live,
Nor for any lie can life condemn or lovely groan
Thine sight mine eyes to such unbounded showers
Thine infection might make worse a son
Proving neglect of thee.
That praise should still be loved mine ear,
For bitterness then travels and heals in sickness.
  But do, therefore steadfast love,
  Save not with thy sole offense,
  Not mine own crime and prove most pleasant.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
"Sometime thine guest will lie, speaking sharp to set
Although bear-trapped, confined or ensnared into rage.
When thou come to greet me in my bud
At the very thought of thy abundance,
Daunt my lips and eyes. Where in vilest hours
For jealousy shall render the warm queen's child waste,
Resembling her choirs strumpet and strumpet her strumpet,
Or as white plagues must fleece, that Time and set them o'er grave.
When in frightful summer shall summer burn my love right at once,

