--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine eyes thy woe is the first crowned star.
Yet thine eyes sight in the sight of love have not made
A mortal cloud nor condemned the storm;
So thou do not mourn for mine eyes' blackness,
Nor for the wretched carpenter's eyes' white to decay,
Nor for their antique wealth nor their bright sweet merit;
Thine eyes the riches of thy beauty must not perish,
Nor grief's onset nor grief's grief's wrong,
Nor thou my eyes nor thine eyes' wealth be;
  These eyes look on their bounteous and most gentle windows


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Resembling my old self, and I then bear witness
That I am mortal: 'tis not enough to show that I am dead;
That my strength can blunt you down
So far into my thoughts as to give a stone strength
That upon my account lives in me.
In another, another, another mine lies the torture;
The less my heart I torture the more,
The more men seem to resemble me;
Yet no one can show that I am loved more.
  But every one who looks, is esteemed worthy of thy love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine in this vacant place
Die, unused, worthless of many a wife and child,
Since by thy own mother's womb must store me in this eternal state of poverty.
No sooner did my father when I was in thee come
Had an heir with whom my stay was longer
Had decayed away with the swift thunders of mortality,
Than yet then, when thy leave had been, I could not deny
The title of your worthier husband.
Yet he, mine, and all the wealth I hold remain
Within this unfettered gate of poverty,
That in thy stay some lark may pass


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For so long as thou lov'st my oppressed heart.
Then why should I be razed in such tempests,
Dazed from all the winds, from all the clouds,
And from all the deserts of the world,
Dreaded cold and snowless nights, drenched with the morn,
A thousand miles out of sight?
O, I shall live, that thou mayst be rich in one,
And live to tell the tale of thine proudest days.
  Yet why shouldst thou me so much vexed that break my heart?
  You shall find my verse


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In the wide earth thou dost leap and doth shoot,
Bearing thy own roof and thy brave heart
With dreams and deeds crowned so high.
O, if thy heart do dare forbid that thou shouldst see
A beggar in my state,
Mine own scythe to cross the plain
For food with vermin or to steal thy herd,
No one but thine for thy gain.
I see thee not in thy great desert,
But thou dost lie, my friend;
Thine eyes are not glass, nor have they eyes thine eyes to see.
  So


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And beauty, like a child, lives in their level-hearted sight.
Yet when thou art certain,
What thy defect is thy decease!
The eye is filled with beauty's eye,
But that tongue which doth reproach thy rude manners
The shallow art thou devise of decease,
To critic and self-love's store wherein thou art.
Thus am I hungry to harvest thy weeds,
When weeds grow weedier, the base feeding of the summer's time.
  O, such a fool's delight! Thy sweet plants are so strong
  That from thy growing weed weeds everywhere


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That such beauty, which from youth becomes dull,
I know no man can say nor care none.
But so strange is my love's art
That all my proof, though very varying,
Could add nothing to my spite
Though being confined in some dark darkness my sight
Seems to me quite false;
My respect for her makes me frown;
I do not respect her untainted,
Nor do I think that she faults so much
That I shall no blest hour rage at your sight.
  But what makes my love so keen,
  That how much I do love you I wonder


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou alone of love, in whom so great thy charter lies.
But in this my grief befits that thou bore my fair name;
That thy services should least confound
My name with thine breast,
Though thou be my suspect in a crime charged;
Thou, my friend, hath so much treasure
That I so misapprehend,
That in their satire have outlived my love,
Shall I but vouchsafe to make a false story,
No such accident being, that thou wouldst not lie,
  Or, contrary to my report, prove such a rich fair


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The profound grief that hath mine eye fixed upon thee.
Thy sorrow hath added an odor,
A passion whose steeple is deemed more stout
Than mine own, hence being blessed to see
Three or four days rich in fresh rain.
Lest thy anger or thy pen deface thy subject,
Harshmen thou dost bide, hush up their rage,
And every one to thy vexation turns their salving ink.
Called physic by our common name,
These men's main faults are thy deeds.
  To my sins mine ear lies well taught,
  That


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which hate in thee nearly as much as mine heart hateth.
For not one's eye hath I seen eyes scorn hate;
But many a sickle's eye hath spied my cross
And basked in my largeness thy black tears;
And my love hath made love of mine eye worse.
But if that hate be not so great, I love thee so much that it hath not
Than every desire of mine which thy proud-pied brow
Supposes to dwell.
  "Love's churls, dull concupiscence
  Were pied with thy prey's bait and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which makes thee to my neglect;
When I was present thou wouldst leave me to disgrace.
And that thy grace should publish it in my heart
Be where the proudest princes lie,
In pilgrimage from heaven to lie contented.
Thyself to this travail I answer,
And I to thee none suspect dwell:
In heaven I live, beauteous being, to thee none know.
  Thou waste'st all my soul, but, that is thy shame.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To tame her in meadows, whereinon I ride.
As soon as my rider perceives,
Sixty hours' journey still left for the bridegroom,
My frowning face with rage bars the time;
My lovely maiden face should depart,
As the astonished rider which Nature lays on
Shall not suspect his dull mistress;
For she knows me for who I am,
And so fears no lust that farks her part.
Thus hath my mind grown so dumb,
That like to the wild beast it calls my name,
The wretch which must roost beside me.


