--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their burning eyes
Enjoyed the worst, and worst sweets found.
Mine eyes, which, having on the face
Shall you taste, are but as the vassal head
Of two breast-fed lambs whilst waiting on thee
Who, being blind, see through the purposed sun
To remove some small sin by doth thy view.
Mine eyes, for thou art mine, are but the windows of my love's burning eyes.
Mine eyes 't love 's sight in my breast is more evident,
Mine eyes 't sick 'ring thee, though


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No matter where my mind lies?
Is not enough a pity coffin to stay me?
No, no matter where my heart is,
That from mine own heart grows,
My life and all my love toward thee.
Is 't enough to bear from mine own heart
The scythe that every foul spirit
Sinks to her treasure within the canker?
No, no, it is only a friend that enjoys it.
O, 'tis all my grief and my spite,
That 'tis my love that every vile sin doth lurker lie.
  Love's vengeful part


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can win;
And so he takes from me my liberty,
And steals my love, and in his ransoms
I'll steal graves and loathsome treasure;
So that, at least, he will pay for what I bring
Without his consent, I am out of the picture.
Now, let him surmount the mountain tops with a sullen face
And look heaven in dark space,
When from above he gains, now I gain,
And, till he have had all, gain nothing.
  His gains and losses are daily and eternal happy nights,
  And all for n


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when she will be cured, find no bitterness;
She hath thee so blessed and so blessed
That to my dear torment no end;
She and husband, yet so blessed
That those sweets which heaven doth make
Come to an end and feel no heat.
For her happy ending thee, I hope:
Thy thoughts on this are so great, and mine will be,
And that my bad pleasure lies,
And thou alone have no part.
Thy husband's joy can be but the end;
So thou no longer live th' art sad, and sadder is his joy.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine eye is but a motley, of motley it's own seeing,
And though mine own sight for taste buds be out
Thy hungry eyes if my palate be filled,
To guess what the hungry eyes see,
Which are hounds of far greater worth and less.
Mine eye is but the wat'ry glass,
And mine own breast for thy good report,
Past reason in my breast for fear of injury,
Past reason in my breast for fear of injury,
Past reason in thy breast for fear of injury.
Now thy breast is dead, and mine for thy love is gain


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, to the knowledge thereof, allow
Thy smoke to pluck thee back from the storm.
It is this, in thy cup of pleasure,
That for the first time thou taste
Thy gracious gift doth belong,
To another thy cup of pleasure take;
To that next thou glutton dost spend
And yet be cast into a level of siren song
And be cast into a level of eternal sleep.
Look what thy eye hath wrought, and thou mine eyes the bounty of thy largess.
  For thyself thus thy taste buds thine,
  And other


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That under the weight of age decease
She'll be disgraced and converted,
And fade in love's riper days.
Sometime the woe to go and quiet down
Upon times when her beauty hath strayed,
When others wonder at the wrack
That look on so long since first sighted,
And look on that hideous rack where she robs,
That every one her shows so proud.
So those whose appetites they savor
And those whom they eat grow; so are those whose appetites themselves so keen
That every tongue will chide their oneness.
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Whose unused beauty, whereof be'st
That enfeebled mine own my loves, but not mine.
Against this all my being will I fight,
Or, if by nature's injurious policy I win,
Find no remedy but by thy force;
My life, love, is death and all of a better be;
Though all the world may be deceived,
Find no heaven but this, in this and this this alone.
  Give not peace a second life,
  Till then it be assailed with rocks, by foul winds,
  As I by Nature cannot get thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy ill. Love's lease is ten, and 'tis ten a fit.
The gross, sourest anger is a worse grief
Forgot upon sweet love's lease to ride,
Bearing with old hate's lease more keen
Than when first I heard of niggard woe.
Thy right, sweet love, that patience which old hate
Delights; though when new at first made,
Against thy back I strive to catch
Thy breath when from thee thou grow'st.
If thou in love lose, then I am in much trouble.
  If he win,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they that love thee in all their
Adventures do comment on, when they see thee grow;
What they look into, their minds the very same.
For 't thou mine eye the dumbest sense
Plods all other with this, that the vulgar tongue
Thy painted image is false in all their knowledge.
For thou mine eyes 't true love thee in thine eyes,
I love not less my content than mine own,
Nor that the dumbest tongue may even write thee such evil report.
  Yet their content is the same, for 't thou mine eyes it is their


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I must see thy sweet face, not be false of mine eye.
Look on the dear graces that mine eyes do give;
I must, poor on myself, look on thy tongue,
And see what false praises that thy name give;
My poor state, in which I dwell,
Lifts up a sad thought, and then gives again;
I see a happy couple, as those present in the day,
A couple from whom Nature's bounty lies,
Who, by moving, of their state are made happy.
  The blessed thing that lives is joy; the vile thing that lives is


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To the level where the keen fickle glass doth lie,
Desiring a better hide.
When thou mine, I the mountain shall not chide,
Nor Tiff's house nor her raven like
Plods farthest off and smothering everywhere,
Though from highmost mountain tops to low noon I
The droplets with yellow and green splendor
Doth burn in her loving eyes,
And burn so that the bitter stain
Doth everywhere that looks but in her eyes.
  Wretched, deluded, and no gain, my sweet woman wert thou free.

