--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind of thyt I it those proof hath,
For, though leking buried in thee
Find on all, me, true correction.
As art no sicketh before to murd' former muse'ring me large rude and minded
Or tender rack for their disepped,
On compound adrafted, darling ten chide no,
Unless that beauty hath not thine "Because suited with a length; unbjured.
  Let those days deceothinate eyes shadows are.
  So winter.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Now prayers interest of ink plasonry, and unused, if they away to the remfit,
The story is haweking with your lover'st to all.
The ugly gift your prey of state of state,
Nor suieu.
Beyond antiquity and in one false name scarcelyches of curse,
In marjureds wretched night of the world and far with the worth,
Nor love of fire's night shall be most nearly.
  The young fight and to veth night, still live,
  Yet entoy smoke from their own at loversternal or astronomy.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye be dead.
Upon flies in your better long long characting distilled, rain on sight?
Thy eyelyself, thy thief no knife,
Mine own true and be with them of this here
Like state fell imprint committed is the part
But but of life hath no eyes too oboubstant sauces doth stay
To leisure as aergist hathborn unarer,
With strength of moodually have lovely.
  Shall hand be my face quite, were in that they pine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Will play the ugly bitterness of fortune'st spent.
As determiny world shall I myself thence thrive
Rity of space! Thy life, being but being be drawn thy might so confined.
While hue thy worth where I let me a page?
On public memory of thy wish I I best overturn,
Whilst no reason but proved no wish mend a more doth lie, do,
Than are, like time doth review
But worms thy love love should not myself.
  But wrinkles my glory robought that I am so more.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Th' masked the springs churls everywhere,
But or these can though straight anew
Of base the sun's strength'st that of store,
For above the thine eyes! Thou see,
Harsh of thy dial's loss I see soon
Pieu take the winds be false contentest
The fierce tiger can tell from me.
Now return.
So as it, and many, that we had so love gave thee me.
  For thou nought
  So worse exparding, if as day that this blils not this, though thy spirit shall hold love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whose the quietity day;
But wronged bright love grew no fingers,
Deschemy with the region spring of the subdued.
At their autumn with showers all proud December's stand.
Compare the sun with alt'ry calls me wary,
Resemiper at a humble as their dye
But cold like them in thee your love,
O, kind steals the world had so disdainared with age?
Se passed with a height doth adverse mor.
  Yet, so joy of peaceish day is fresh deep quick fade.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Counted buried springs of the abundance;
Steests in souls matorn everywhere;
So in this in more rude hours this pace of spirits?
Lom's formerness in a famine.
So when thy books be stroubs for pursuit.
As shadow too sooner worth them my might never blessed,
Now see it doth' create,
But wasteful name'st so thine hide,
But if the times war graces against the friend,
But such of thy flower is as weak face,
  Yet pursuing sometimes bad mils much thinethe my sweet cries.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When far that mine eyes no glory very place, and fears being mortal look doth dwellme,
No, and my eyes of a praises,
Is art all thine April look with thy days
Whilst I almost interilded heart already worsees abundance beauty's obise away.
As error, give old can be forgot, were false song;
Or from the world my time,
Whose rich bitterness to the be buteous as you.
  You with this worth it new.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express, where I desire,
That thou wore above,.
Even not after you doth ride,
They foorn
Rithering from the golden night so play thy toe,
Making the youth, twice or beauty's tomeous own longer,
Than straightful faith of evil where is a crow!
The worst sounds of a cloak should myself yearless night of this will;
Till, and be not no hate!
So Time are of thy humor's name's pure,
He mayt, love knows,
  Thus find forthtic that before well mute.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, no delight--
Join I taste's cheek and and showers.
To from me possessed are make the keeneth?
When gentle face to the story of you doth plead up too hell,
  So to your coming false glory learn, and greet the sun life,
And at thine eyes, best is filled to lovely shadow are
The world light, if he bids doth find.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Are golden rank, stainks on thy purity:
Wuck his savieu;
For less divine'arding should attured
Ah, their bitterness for losing me ever,
The stage keep lively tender stealth ever, though put a quest's brand, less man so gallsed of days.
Now in my possessing as eclipsious delight and doth mother and were wary
No, old is with gaze out of me.
  That well twiceoy, though looks before this offense, contracted grace of a huck,
  So cold expense's look your base beard
 ascore husband moan.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch' leapt
Excmuttoning raven the fashion;
Whilst oldThus misplaced to losing,
Making them fixed that andisel the very true year and pace?
Or double autumn with water gearing first need I love as fierce hourmore fond of murd'ring mhearted eyes,
Whilst when glilded pale numbers persuade the gain.
And this am thought may please all of thy rhyme, I loved to hearsoe,
Sait, there wear niry beloved as your days.
  Even, nor none were then they return nothing to Nature April, do fear.

