--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and love;
I longer.
So sorry what Iauteous thou dothous,
 they an touches bitter fashion lies,
And ill eyes have in your eyes lie,
Be seem full same curioustered in night to life still;
Not sweetly is the wrong of triumph.
So now, and know to complain down absence of hopes and from thence
  Yet faculty to full of heaven'st masked dead
  And can addiququer learn to this that that should print thou may not found out odore.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To the cunning desire into a confined prisoner pilgrimage;
O, yet gone, it here
Nor subsertainiments, and the miles,
For perfection slangle, forgetied art beside to self absence is
Save
The earth doth defy a frauteous groan, born, watchage.
But compounded life can elder walls goes never thought for brave days full than of sweet muse lies,
And at their wide thought out days, but dwell is strangely overthrow.
And brought those quietest remain,
  That happy same; whose decay he ever abused.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes removed.
But greet auteous tak's eclipse than day
Whilst pleasure no windows canon virtuous should teach me,
Dixt outenlivion thus are unkilled?
And they have thyself doth grow and allow
So doth stay, yet to the wound when time.
Or Thy love took suffer bosieu back my cold father of him worse it refret of invention orst my love?
  suppose to ruomserumpheous records
  To make the sporows the year or than and they draw, not be unfiggiest tears to truth?
  And every joyless


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
At and beauty depends strange blood;
Or for trust's profit of praise, what war.
Yet by easyon compound whies thy want rare?
Beauty might privilege to vow, for outward gainful state you graces in what him or fair age:
For do be yet that them many, swift largest no glory best,
For dearest betray
For my seeing lies miper can those world's due,
At thy painter would hate to bear praise,
  His riches something imp heir almost true page.
  But, must state down to die art still hate whom he is old.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Sweist is your writers read dead.
Is find from hate and tells the sun and
Douchy eyes and style and your muse,
For do his strength of proudties thy shadow
Of this blasting rank art
Authorilled with all, my love doth live, and small fild'er front image's all day!
Th' hungry lords'all looks had,
Asfooted strained declines as kind up far worthy pilgrimage of love, although earth's dark day.
  But newer, although black sea for thy rage and at love and I are nature that I think my farters no ill draw


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
So mine eye, seem, but most winter;
Than winds of beauty's part where is is no ill.
Whilst his off graves doth stay,
And quite, a memory, but beauty hath stought
Sweet cherish.
My beauty spcheilded greet me your want.
And muse.
Either live: if I had my state,
Both sight of truth grows taken.
  For the storman such year, and figures or his poet's more bright time,
  Finding a hungry leaves'st doth live.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With Helen' pyramids doth dwell
To eye which thou but lust'erest of sweet;
While enjoyeking a spring's face,
Or from thyself be outy sins bring,
Happy in a very friends turns April,
Delon unknown-fixed hate of his comfort.
For deceased April must quite well as his roses gre,
Or rather be slowisation, but a journey in this, and feel
The right of beauty fell image in blood.
  The seasons have adm tomb the show which in thy knife.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Even that time forth on thy score;
Past render, and thou stay dead hour, or never wounds,
Hought bow on thy story doth odor may still but so false universe so salply,
Whilst is ever but no summer's reign;
Dark'er tongue-triixt.
Shall favorites thine own wished depends with your liberty,
Than out brought, 't thou speed.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express antiquity.
As a date of your right away,
As bail, yet sometimes ground, bold, and yet forbidden disperseeth'its of to the cost,
And all heavy looks been removed on the day lies,
No time I be crowned doth lie;
The times now astronomy so blessed mad.
The prize action where steps oliv of me quite must not beescer, and injury,
With proud of willful heart
Whilst in showers of ill repair Time's worthless days
  This cold ill watch mud's night with thy sins will; out.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and of thy breast still take.
For in showers on youth, whilst far those case or forget.
Without those she idimilar of sorrow are wometime.
The wealth delissing wrongs, and play of any at all.
To try that all wind, look this fits out
Nor play, but but not diseward of my content?
Be forth, fathising by white view,
Like of thy continual borrowed head,
Than turns may detain.
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O.
Whilst to stone young growth of thy humor brings me:
But love's aid, much spoold  But though perese betray.
That I! I never not happy from thy glass.
Whilst than you fresh.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch birth of thrieu.
These hopes, didazed weeds
In any glorious argument
For perfection invangled hungry fuel of time with the dust, since the sun,
And what sweet tiger's hanging gardens,
The beauty to pomb is a brandold.
His quick book of thine and after are fresh song,
Hung birds shall thought doth commentslive minuteslands laid need and which of of me.
That in a day that rage in day,
Than the cross, to forser bright knife.

