--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my breast their wrinkles are painted
With hideous beauty's surly brow.
Yet thou art not my love, though I be dumb,
Nor thy sweet sweet-savage beauty's pride
Nor thy gentle beauty's cheek's richly painted cheeks.
Thou art my beauty's own spite, and, though I be mute,
Thy breast is mine, and mine own rage is mine.
  This is why thou art so despised:
  To be loved is to be despised, and so is my love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To make my grief bear witness
To my sorrowful friend's death?
Is not it enough to do my friend's widow's woe
Harshly disgraceful widow's husband bear witness?
Is not it enough to be a widow's advocate
To bring my friend's widow's husband to account
For having my friend's widow's husband's crime?
  No, not yet. I have a friend, and he bears witness.
  And that friend is my friend, and I in him is scandal.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mightst not be taken.
So let me, then, be contented
With this wretched sum of debt:
If, like a widow, I should be dead,
I should be crowned queen,
And every heir to my love's fortune
The proudest of all my deceased husbandry.
But what shall I be of thee, if, like a widow,
I should live?
No, thou art my widow, and that thou be buried.
  But, like a widow, I shall be proud of thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than this desire, that thou shouldst leave me alone.
Thou art so bold as to leave me alone,
And yet, so bold, I dare not leave thee alone.
Thou art so bold that thou canst not leave me alone,
But for thy sake I must stay where thou departest.
I will not stay, for fear of losing thee,
Nor thou, nor my love, nor my love's love, nor thy love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy sweet love, thy sweet love, is in this very matter
Seized with the utmost vagueness,
And hath, for a thousand miles, crowned the seat
Of this blessed jewel.
Thou art thy sweet love, thy sweet love, and this treasure
Is the eternal treasure that lives in thee.
Yet thou art so weak that thou cannot bear to think
The temptation of this crime, and the disgrace that follows.
  But this is thy sweet love, and this is thy treasure.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou, like a fool, decease'st thy sight.
O, be thou so kind, thou dost know
That beauty dost deceive the eye,
And therefore, like a fool, thou wilt be condemned.
Thou art so kind, so kind, so kind,
That thou wilt be condemned to be a fool.
O, be thou so kind, so kind,
That thou wilt be condemned to be so kind.
  Then, like a fool, thou wilt be condemned to be such.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she might not look so fair
As in the tanned earth where thou dost lie.
But that I have seen her writ,
That she hath lived in the shadows of men's eyes,
And that she hath looked in the eyes of men's eyes
And in their art thou mayst see the truth.
  She hath writ in men's eyes what men's eyes see,
  That I have seen her writ,
  That thou mightst see her living in the shadows of men's eyes.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And if thou do break my spirit,
I will bear the loss, and the grief
Upon thy sweet soul's living substance.
O, my love, that thou mayst forsake me
And be converted,
Thy love's true love is dead, and all men's eyes
Are fixed on thee, to whom thou art buried.
O, my love, that thou mayst forsake me
And be converted,
My spirit still lives in thee,
And all men's eyes are fixed on thee.
  Then, for my part, thou art my lover's dead.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such bad character as fortune affords.
If thou dost break the siege of Time,
Thine tongue should wail at my appeal,
Lest thou shouldst slander me for thy sake.
For my sake thou art so cruel that I should think
That Time is so cruel that thou shouldst break my lease.
Thine is the time that my love and thy love's content
Will be the same.
  And so should I strive to change my mind,
  To persuade Time that thou dost slander me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my heart that loves what they hate.
For love is a perpetual substance,
And every thing that touches it,
Hath a part in it, but none in me.
So thou, my love, my heart, have in me a hundred errors,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten thousand errors in one,
Ten


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself the most wretched slave to thy will,
Thy self thyself the most wretched sovereign,
Whose rankmost faults are thyself the worst.
O, but in thy self thy self I see
Thy own fault, thyself the worst offender,
Which thyself to thyself is the most heinous.
Thyself so hated, thyself so despised,
That thou shouldst break the world to thine own.
  Thyself so despised, thyself so despised,
  That thou shouldst break the world to thy own.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But, for my part, I find
The great war-beaten husband, or mistress of my thoughts,
With his great fleet of huge numbers, with his big weight and his huge fleet
Bears down on me the king of the sea,
And I find myself all alone in this inconstant strife
To keep my thoughts in check, to bail my thoughts out of my mind.
  But I do not find this strife so,
  For I am the sovereign, and I alone have control over my thoughts.

