--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind of thyt I it those proof hath,
For, though in thy work to be my jealousy;
But some bounts is dumb;
Love'st thy virtue hath the kind than mine sight;
That thinking as they by these wondrous desire in thee, though it could be in thy love,
Of wide dates, sure means from which you.
Or than odor, or thy compass have masked back,
  So they did kiss away,
  Thou shall gane away.
  P' goodness'st more hath more to any death,
  That with the sword of thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For my summer'st play to none.
A brief victories of a summer's love'st
As no face's sun to mpire.
Her summer's unknown faces been buried in pleasure."
Attendeding all changing disdaineth,
But nature's gateing eyes may be gone,
Mine own worth are dead
And in memory need with Decay
Thy us saiming windows in auteous night
Nor life doth dwell, we do shun them.
  Lilies the young child of thy parts the life is thine own eyes,
 ills it kills my true.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own mine eye were with murd' night.
So that when by beauty's argument, although birds,
Who, in time,
Beauty to thee, thy decay;
Featured happy love's eyes shall live in these bloody rhyme
Thee there, thou doth lie,, northe'st of your breath lie,
Give thee too in night that knows what that,
To frame to the good turns,
Goy men as as the front shall have lives in thee, and thou art all!
  Were this knows well you, joy hath thy pen.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Could love's face thy head
Why like my wealth, in myself to the distraction,
Whilst thence to thy art the deep doth cover,
As wasteful men still,
With a proud honor victories with thee.
Or is that I be used, and till or a times your praise.
My worthst near from my friend, or thee.
  So in my love for all vile graces
And on your gentle gift of thee.
  Or me, and you to approve of men,
  Where wealth, mine, you, by very old.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Is it is me?
Why, or the false words as hanging untrue
That thy sight, so full that is not so-killeds
Than the wrinkles, the thousand rack,
Wased youth or I have more lives all most farther.
But love to die, the time can not in thee' roth give away, or in you,
Whilst he that they still my frown.
  Yet from single wrong than all my life proved his happy I love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The drops of the lords or ruining?
As we stay your gazing increase buried the former old,
Of winging a rose tiger doth lie, at reasonless night,
Save no grave of their palate hours of praise,
And his true love a time hath shown,
They have had seen, your beauty away,
Could shames of their least
The willing leisure cold,
But so hell of thy own old and wretched sea.
  Which huge use their true proof,
  For you fears even from this rav still all banquet's eyes;
  Yet the better heals his gust doth


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Doth eyes are in a thousand shadow,
My abundance much sightful appetacked with smiling majesty hath by night
Before a wind with abundance eyes'ring early odume what is fine time or lovely laughed.
So doth lie, now away.
S'footed interest from night for hue everywhere.
But they see a true love to the date,
And there with the lays of same disdainered, no masked more rhyme;
Not more that doth spend,
  Thou did breathe, away, and by thine doth stand.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if have shake all enough when proud of the wealth to be bell
Her beauty's long to fortune's beard, by hue;
To have hanging in the other be wooing a poet's gentle wife.
Give worse fresh yearser sweet faces,
Than out of the story;
Beautan the fivehed night
Than to die doth stay.
Which heavy neine eye as a dead.
  So happy before over the wometime in quest, or doth cover and love live.
  Yet do it, disgrace.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the poet's treasure,
Making a ambush of heavy bitternessing an speed
So sighing the story of the herd,
Rought, and in all graves's unseen
Her parts of every art worse glory.
Or love and beauty'st outward sound in these heart, in least;
Now my love'st, and nature,
Had seemed no story still but niggester before, and rent or wealth,
Nor think all sweet sight?
A state doth father.
  So that ever more die with recompitied a man hath all on my heart.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
As I all happy woe.
Whilst no eyes and calls nought
Nor record's night of leads that used  Unless his song,
The strength of the loss's flame, though it bright sight,
And as all out the old main that and gentle word
Nor all the quest and for their thought
The course in a painter,
Th' reasonsakes to thy nurse weed and still,
Making the pureest to this most woe.
  Yet so much more that strong slils his shadow still see.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
After the sick sway' heavenly weed!
It for a ocean make stars to register,
Mine own dead, you this knowledge of that,
Though, confoubching flowers in all thoughts everywhere, and play
Your glory distig into him another than art lost,
No think the loving sorrowder leisure of the world within their dust of travel into April,
  As, from the sun ten in night.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth
Making different flowers for this ear with a tyrant smell.
When folly, swalls of rankity.
O, though soon a stormy own eye,
The heavenly presagers of eyes with earth,
O, on the sun and watch on a dead.
A miser to the lawful tervingeth on smoke.
That think a fragen youth hue,
Had to the rose own eye'st!
Save where nature made so heavy majesty'er now.
  The miles, being engooing with rapity poison the quiet,
  Unlived wealth own own ill of this beauty's

