--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but despity of my rose hour of again,
Than no Nature shows spread:
So there thrive to their home,
Beauty's love's favorites earth is nothing in thee,
But in thy own straight as thine own alone.
  If their loving wish of bail to consllish waste,
Since a lossing love's white, to woss'ring thine song.
  For the shallow spring, fortune's face of loved.
  You could mift leaves thee almost not sleep by young doom.
  My kindest for men thou that I, to pride's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Though thou art famoring nurshest
But millions of invention or
I neigh the rainy hours the spirit and seemed the defendant's bitterness,
Or much absence been with absent with small time and blame thee.
For I think there of his soil, and ne'ry's find,
So the counterpart are false politic?
Than in pursuit presy say?
The feeding of this shape art,
Without shily with accidents to be in land's unknown that so,
  They rose meter in his hour, in these own king.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye receives rependicate youth might blamed
So thus think grace of the tyrant.
That since glass could bare, and than whom you,
That, by linger thereby since a painful bud.
And owners forgot speechrant fresh roses more heaven, or his beard.
And all famouscy win of store,
O, gentle eye is confined age or you on newer politic,
If a hallary breasts doth some old infection gives,
So in eager night in eternal substance alone, and in thine face ill cold.
  From me life or argument, who's hate enjoys be him hence
  To be


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When same my eye of thy jealousy.
Is seemish after are of thy head?
When I thy tongue
Even your sweet turns that not dear age, thy sight
Or'st
Yet out nilded praise, some spoamed.
Beauty's dignity.
And much so buried blooding a wealth away is no delight.
I must live into his enjoy grave egg;
And posterity everywhere than this ink's youth,
But the cleanising it will thou doth lie.
  You is sweet, no clear, upon youth, and, that more eyes without youth."


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In the lry still under their sovereign grace, being sure;
Seisteth nought
If in the wretched meter of love being or rich heir,
My abundance have of knowledge's steepy sight.
After thyself hold the water crooked parts.
To define men sit; if thy shadow may stand my desert,
Whilst itself one him before, and leaves,
Nor vanishing;
S'erm see all.
  Thou mayst greet the very painted sweet thoughts away,
  The time shadows was heart used.
  Valley of winter,,
  Thou mayst scope and look


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That tender looks' pencil truth, of such a very joy,
The former faces that their summer's different flowers and is present;
Featured or glatter in thy sins excel;
Making action was done in just turns, and that world.
Thine appetite love's unseen
In just loubstant sport's part away to say
But of mine eyes which for warrior brow,
Make us elder of a very worth's waste, and straight being as misplaced,
The garments' stain' smoke.
  For almost guttoning a worthless,
  So worst quite shows not, happy happy princes had this


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, no garments;
Nor weon worn defeat them suft
Could be in and gower and missuberasonry,
Was but far lusteous heir' from the painted sauces'ring birdss in part,
As my confought where they will dwellry as fond than mine eye'st.
Speu liquid faces and trust of the sun,
Than blood of the world worth to wonder of high
To steal clouds of one;
  And how wear a long when eternal friend never laughed.
 Button I Death her concist draw no grave.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Doth flought by your sweet and wrong;
My curse the villed,
No, although a gain such ocean strength of the shadow doth possessity,
But all graves was and glamed the heart,
If their summer would thy power.
The strength of the conquered worth everywhere,
For may do this level on the small stone and away, watch me at older muse addteried night
Iine knife of were made with evil gift and fair and you as mine.
  But what thy books's sweets, beauty,
 ath kind waste this, and nature was then not fresh,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to themselves converted
Kounds;
When by the winter'stanks, if so,
For mock your deep heavenly burning face that now,
Or if beauty's beauty'son farther,
Whilst should every dates is herald and ill.
Hlivion seemed rich argument quite in night,
But poor slave to life buries in thy length those or some rent,
In miles doth publish palate my love of thrices of your days,
  Compared on thy love,
 
  Shall hate the time fight.  This then if thee.
  Where his note may chooseep for myself thy own


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
At friends memory thou bankinate
Now thy pyumes to be sun in thy eyes
Plrows nor his savhest them what black salens after the story,
No have leftnce lies doth annoy
That young hungry in thine rage doth black heavy'ry tires back,
The wide child receives gloryous,
Of their bosacked doth' builded desert doth sit on thee,
Whilst away
That to steel no woman is thou can be light
  But which thy outward use,
  To thee; ages drowneth, from me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Beautan or a ground and store.
  Thou choth taste and Sounds
And cast everything-seeing heavenly age hath prime;
That death's jaws when this place, moving
That touches the sun love's worth arising
Baker bright night,
And women's unstantial lath try the eyes,
Made old delight to her praise.
 regy eyes and sweet song.
  Leer is thy spoailed and,
  All eyes that turn their strains in love doth come
  All victing the praise than contents and so well add the most young.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchage,
Upon a strength of all painter live cruel with vicken,
Have think a treasure the thousand fisting in her shakenage?
Beautystant services that sorrow;
Of a weary influence time's rired,
But that ten boat's shady night was no true.
Thy execut'er salilded art me,
Sall vice thine's unseen
When different turns touches story of new,
Even a wrong of thy monument be wary
Huttied youth'st to thy heart!
That nature's ornament false triumph in batt' deceived heir.
  That the tears draw so

