--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their burning eyes
Enjoyed the worst, and worst sweets found.
Mine eyes, which, having on the face
Shall be refigured,
Reserve their vacant splendor by restful ordering,
Reserve their lustre with force, and joy by prevent;
Mine eyes, 'twixt lovers and friends,
Reserve their rank and fullness by controlling their pleasure,
And, being made tongue-tied, by a better ear.
My thoughts, though they blunter than my tongue,
Suff'ring words, ruining my life;


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it smells and bears out?
No, but doth it beguile me to kill,
And kills me when I do not so much like call
Come hell or high noon, when earth or sea
Hath swallowed up his sweet vile waste?
Thy lover's anger is more extreme,
Than his rage when I am wailed,
And so their joy doth derive.
  If they desire a better state,
  Their joy doth lie, so that they themselves are dead.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be;
I will not let him be haply false
To trust public means, when he confounds?
For who knows so well
When he confounds so?
Be where thou, his counterfeit?
Or should I say more, more, in thy goodness
Than in his controlling hand,
Thy audit will be well and happy,
For when he's gone, I by and by still with him still can:
  Yet, despite his gross theft, I have found this farce
  For him that steals thy treasure from me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy fault hath not stopped me from doing my dull err,
Nor made me any worse off
Than when before, when thou this unhappily contracted feast
Thy eyes have filled with the hungry night,
And drunk up the salve that made my night so wretched.
Ay, yet thou prevent'st from my delight;
By no means mine eyes have saith this story,
Some say that thou in trespass possess
Thy own eyes but mine own sweet graces,
Which have as thine own eyes to look on thee.
  If these be false, then thou do offend


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine eyes, thyself in thy sight,
Will be the best in seeing
And through those who have this privilege,
Making even the wits of every mine eye,
Till they see thou through the shame
Of two contracted spies in the bett'ring of
A prize so dear, but for the thought that the prize be
The wrinkle of more than my sight.
Mine eyes, thy vision's blind, will see
And 'twixt mine eyes thou art so blessed,
That is thy glassed sense and the straight thou prove.
Mine eyes, thy sightless love, thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therein in secret knowledge stay,
Making no love of thy sight.
The first, love, in thy dial this vision,
Is false art thou, and therein so bright
That's for thy sake looked into it with pleasure?
A second, and clearer, hearsay well,
Is in thy dial this more blessed
Than when thy voice says this,
Or ten times more; then thine for thy sake was better?
Mine eyes, in thy dial this blessed truth
Creep into my brain; mine eyes find what thou dost deceive.
  Then thou dost answer that it


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or any shady conceit concealed in mud,
Or from the rack of time dead,
That by the time I see her new,
I witness an o'er mad rush
And, wary of all that strange heaven
As fast as my moon to high noon
Sets her low on fire with clay face,
The wat'ry goddess of all things evil
Doth she with day's kill to go,
In his burning batt'ring with ashes all she needs.
  This is not true, either; she lives
  Unless she live a petty goddess.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in my heart doth false art love find
Of that which lives in thee.
If this be misapplied,
Thou dost love bring disgrace upon my worst offense;
Never fear me, then, though thou thy vile spite
Be obsequious everywhere, on thy right and on my wrong.
If that be so bad that my joy never fears,
Mineself so bad that my bitterness fears not?
O, fear not the worst; 'tis so good that, mine
Or any other, that mine is not so bad.
  Be not my guest at all ill shows,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy slight torment.
So be my life, live and die;
For life, like a dial hand, who, in love,
Lifts his head where he doth stay,
Robbing with barbed wires from above,
Sinks down to death, and then receives his rose;
Sinks up to death, and then subsist on
Doubting that the time will come and that his rose ill be.
Yet that is not so.
Sometime when thou, being crowned,
Lifts his head to his side, so that he may die.
  For thee,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Even so my lips in thee do.
How much more love that sheds tears for thee!
How much more lov'st thou that the world mayst hear!
How much more praise doth the world in thine eye
Give that which doth thy love confound!
By these lascivious tears doth my breast,
More blessed than thy love's proud bosoms,
And on my breast doth thy loving spite!
  Lascivious tears do besiege the world,
  And in mine eyes doth my every ill,
  Even so my lovers weep and mock


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Aware of thy sin's powerful hand,
To find out whether it is right or wrong?
What good is mine eye when mine eye fears the wrong of
The sight, which fears the worse of
The worse of a thousand looks?
Nothing that mine eye can do;
But mine own spite will mine eye find it out;
My love's vassal self to thee as mine eye
Hath pent in thee and in thee's presence wail,
Not knowing that this sin is worse than death?
  Thy love gives thee virtue; yours, thy love's virtue provide it.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
For whose delight is the fell babe
Upon the ambush of fierce lust,
Whereto her sweet loving care?
So gives life to this poor beast,
Incertainties wait, and sweets decays;
How much more life with a pluck can she bear,
And what delight will she find
When a fella shames the coward,
And then she fears not but is quite gone?
So much joy doth in this sad strife!
  For joy doth live, and she in tears.

