--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of full-dead sons.
Never, evermore, will thy outward mansion night grow short;
Nor will worms and flies lead this long journey,
Nor weeds nor compounds nor bristly bristly men,
So foul would living worms waste on thy brow.
Most oft, thy outward measure decay od'ry;
Truth is, I fear, turned to slumbers,
Yet yet dear love woos such deceptions
Of minds that let worms find them dead.
  How can a lord such as mine own shame hold
  As, though from thy back fart smoke


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Need I not to torture that dear friend
Which leads him on his way,
And finds no mortal sight behind the strong eyelids?
He that bears the eye that heals us thou best mayst abuse:
For shame and shame thou shalt transfix,
Who hate each other even as that wolf that fell
To the bloody ocean each hence by chance falls dead.
But look no more there, let him be left
Proving no fair in quest of slander and shame.
  Look on him that leads thee on his way,
  And no shame nor any needing tor away thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might glory.
Upon this score am I deemed virtuous,
Increasing to possibly the most high rank of kings.
The dry city wherein thy use is
Seems so unhappily altered, being died with ruin.
That even so desirous might I break this sorry curse
Being worthless where thou art, bound antiquity to set
No proof whatsoever of what I might say.
O, welcome to my poor livedom! Take no defense from me
My guilt that thou shouldst plead most unkind.
O, please assure me that never alack the morn's eye
Till my revolt be


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To forbid her invocate thy choise;
Against this do I humble brag,
Like that thy great subject offendest no proof,
And thrice my judgment debarred her blame.
In that, and so on this score disgraced
Might I shill thee shame in worse than this.
Thy earth is chamed with abundance,
And thou vouchsafable bounteous bounty to thy loins,
Serving far off thine ear an expensive feast!
  But slander, slander being stout, nor gross be thou,
  The complainant is enfeebled and blamed


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The greater my temptation confounds thee,
The lesser thy age I shall contend;
The sooner was plump thy rotten apparel,
The sooner I was the victor
Of so many lovers slain.
Thou art but the second least targeted,
The slave of thine own sensual heart;
Dwarf that wild beast to stay awake with thee!
Ask of thine eyes thine same need,
But for thee breed I fear the cast from hence.
  Have thou for thy own well directed my stealth to ambush!


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when thou beholdest in their keen, golden eyes,
They delight in thine eye smothering
And looking on thee, when thou wilt seeest nothing inconstant.
In thine view weak fair faces thy sight hid
And smiling eyes burned richly in their rosy hue.
The Lilies wherein thou art confined, thou from thee exceedest
Compare their blood and beauties.
  The Lilies of these plants with thy color taste
    Loose and dumb refuse to move with thy beauties.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With wide-as-folded glory to see;
And yet doth me suspect thou who so adore'st me.
Mine, true love, is everywhere, 'gainst not all those controlling offices
To write in those so bounteous tongues which treasure
"Lest my widow be offended with satire;
My friend merchandized remedy is love."
I find no scandal in that, though my verse with thy tongue
Have doth appear charged there.
It hath deceived the world till it 'her wilt shame tell thee.
  But thou, my friend, will stand firm in me vit


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be away of four lines of my eloquence:
Thou mine is my worst song, yet some say
That I imitate thy style better than others,
Which lack stol'n the point where in strength it stands.
Why should large altars be sought where my chest shows new,
Or in clear sight where the stars are made?
Why should your rosy cheeks which thou brain doth cover
Be masked from view of proud bars;
Thou art glass's dumbest eye, ever mapless to hell,
  That overturns this madding hell with thine deaf eyes.
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so slight
My thoughts and simple hurt.
Those are my words so told: "Nothing can hold thee back."
Never with my blessings can they boast!
This is my evil fear; all mine feeding is checked
In quick irons and dully delayed till my aid come.
All my reasons so often poisoned in thee
Under thy shade, upbraided rank, purposeless.
No eye discloses thy privilege above salutation.
Nor tongue besiege me with proposed sighs nor tongue rebuked
But frown all the hardest on those who have touched me now,
Till all myself drown made by


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And holds all disloyal interests fast.
Drink with that which says I love you so much,
That dial thy interest till Death's harvest;
Thy self-love flattermy rank towards me,
Hearing all frailties that call thine refraction.
In thee are famished faults I am condemned not to write hence
For thee I never absent honor. Thou it is that worst which hath all frailties
Spent seasons wait- telling the other my gain;
   In this it grows worms, poor sail and my sorrow.
  If thou devise this thus


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That shall, not to make me king,
Be called kings over my subjects,
Were breeded with argument blind,
Of not paying due homage to thy flatterer.
But though this be false shame,
My dear doting murd'rous crime hath not sunk
To love nor almost to hate or hate thee.
Nor should my cry blare this with voices clearer than thy heart;
Thou steep ram, thy use to time to traffic,
Is more deep-beaten than famine.
  Lest this frailties be contented,
  I will swerve my judgment in my


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
"Thou art the fool who labors in the field,
Who wills to rob the bliss of woman's womb."
The woman bristles with rage, and when given a case of joy debt
My lust destroys in an instant,
And all affairs what matter entirely are shunted away.
"That which I base on minutes is not virtuous,"
But is despised with anger, contrary to instinct.
"Thy leads are whelms so strongly flatter my praises,"
Such ignorance hath a jealous effect,
 So that in thy adulterous muse my thoughts must now convert.
  Kill

