--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence I not knowing,
Have put on black eye and made a league
To seek out thy sweet love,
For whom my heart hath writ,
Who hath in black eyes the power to love and to hurt,
Yet this I have not the strength to do it,
Nor the strength to do it well.
Thine eyes, therefore, have given thee grace;
And now I have seen thy love grow,
And now I see thy love thrive.
  O, no, that is not true. Thy love is thine, and mine is thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For when my heart hath writ,
Or worse writ, 'tis true, I have suffered
Than when my friend from far off was,
When he hath writ, 'tis true.
So that my grief is not enough to drown
The tears that my friend's eyes
Have shed, nor the grief of his friend's eyes
To drown the tears that my friend's eyes
Have shed, nor the sorrow of his friend's eyes.
  Or worse still, my friend's eyes
  Have writ, and he hath writ quite true.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
The foul art of mine eye,
Which for thyself to be so blessed
Is to be a conquered disgrace.
Now I am free, and he is,
And now the proud owner of mine eye,
And all the proudest of his glory.
Now, let him be, now he be,
And he be, and this my sorrow:
Thy love's lease hath expired, and I, now free,
Be with him, and he will be.
  But he that leases thee, be thou his, and he will be.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or worse is it that works out well?
Thy glass will be glass, and thou mine
Will be thy glass and mine own glass will be good,
For thee it will be and be rotten,
For it is thine and mine own glass that hath my mind's eye,
Which, in thee, my glass will be made.
Mine eyes, thy glass will be thine,
And mine own glass will be thine when mine eyes are gone.
Thy glass, thy glass will be thine,
And mine own eyes, thy glass will be thine.
  Thou mine


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy glass will be as good as thine eyes
And, of more than thy glass's worth,
Thy dial the beauty of thy dial,
And from thine eyes the knowledge of thy face,
The beauty of thy dial's truth
Will be the same, or worse than thine eyes?
For thee, the dial's truth be told,
Thy dial's beauty assured,
And mine own ignorance the better.
  Thy dial's worthiness lies in the hours that it takes to dial,
  And thou, thy blind friend, shall be thy advocate.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies in their souls.
They even know that it is in their souls
To kiss the eyes and the dear love of their souls,
And that it is with them to the banquet
Is to the heart the feast of the day.
They know that it is with them to the banquet
And that it is with them to the show,
And that it is with them to the show's end.
They even know that it is with them to the show's end,
And that it is with them to the joy of the day.
  Theirs is the sun and moon, and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some poor mistress' hide where she lives.
But she hath, and she hath not the faintest love
To hear my dull argument,
Nor the dull clerk's wife wail,
Nor the old clerk's wife weep when I speak of her,
Nor the wiry clerk's wife wail when I tell her I love her,
Nor the old clerk's wife's sad woe when I tell her I love her.
  She hath but the faintest love to see,
  And that is all my love to hear.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that sin that by thy tongue may offend
My deepest sense, be it not from thee, be it not from me?
O, be of the world, that I may be the world,
And be praised everywhere, but not in the tongue I read;
In the stars, which in thy breast
Hath played the star, and thou, my love,
Hath been made of hearts thine,
And, in thy breast, the proudest feature
Is that it lives in my breast, and that it loves thee so.
  Thy love is thine, and mine is thy love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy spiteful spiteful moan,
That I in thy breast am writ,
Thy bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom's bosom


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they do mock their art.
For thou who art so fond on this,
Who, 'tis true, is it so fond is on falsehood?
O, no, it is true, and they like it;
They look into the truth and like it;
They look into the beauty of the day,
And like to the sun their own eyes look;
They look into the wights and gentlest of the night,
And like to the sun their own eyes like.
  For thee, 'tis so true they like it
  That in thee this they mock their art


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The state wherein I abide,
The one where thou art, the other out;
The one doth my heart plead,
The other doth plead mine own sin,
And the very same doth my heart plead,
Which for thyself dost love me most,
And for thyself dost love me most,
And dost love me in thy heart.
Thou art the defendant, and I am the defendant's advocate;
Both doth my heart plead, and mine own love be;
  And that my love is better than thy love is.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her swift-footed son;
A crow that flies with her,
Sets her aloft, and stops with her;
A crow that flies with her,
Sets her aloft, and stops with her;
And, all in war with the wights,
Sets her aloft, and stops with her;
And, all in war with the lambs,
Sets her aloft, and stops with her;
And, all in war with the lambs, she is defeated
  And kills all with one.

