--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
For thou dost bear all my griefs and travail of the world,
Whilst I, thy advocate, still have the withering sorrow
Whilst thy appeal says that no such merit lay.
For that my griefs and thy love's glory die,
Save where they have but lost,
Return of the woe, which I love quite;
The very worst was this: my grief's firstborn,
And from thee defeated I all ill.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  All ill


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye on darkness which methinks not shows.
Thee have I been absent from the heart,
For that sweet love hath stol'ered away
My deepest sense how hard true love hath writ.
And from a frown I have seen sweets and beauties grown;
But since then my glass shows me myself myself
Beated and chopped with tanned antiquity,
I see what an antiquity can lend.
  O, learn to read what an antiquity can lend.
  This wish I have had before: that is so rare
  That it is so rare that it is thought my love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
For when thyself thyself dost hold me up afloat
And in the rearward of the gilded tiger's jaws,
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land
To the rearward of the gilded ocean,
And see the rud's quick foot back again,
When other petty griefs and sorrows neigh no more.
Then can no praise to thee, which on thy aid,
Save where thou dost pay the rent.
  But do not so, love, love, dear friend,
  Save that thy love may seem sufficed
  By


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst then thou alone shallst call me a beggar,
And I alone shall be the store,
Where wasteful war shall be,
For where abundance lies, or shallst resort
Whilst I, my glass will not seem so stout
Whilst I, the store, which will be thy place.
Thy sweet and lovely rose gardens shall not seem,
For sweetest odors and beauties despised everywhere.
Thou single-sunken single, which gives thee all thy sum.
  Yet be a tattered guilt, though I be absent from thee,
  For sweetest


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou dost hold me like a vassal bound to stay,
Whilst thou dost beguile me to depart,
For thou dost love thee, and will;
Be absent from thy heart and my grief,
Whilst thou dost give thyself thyself thy love,
Save where thou dost live, and in me depart.
Be absent from thy wailing chief,
Whilst thou dost love me depart,
From thy wailing chief, and I depart.
  This may be a life that in thee shall live,
  And thou thy wailing chief


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That it is so blessed,
That is so possessed with such a treasure so rare.
For what's so possessed with such a treasure so possessed
That like a jewel will be well esteemed,
Likely confounds me after my mistress' decease
When I have seen such wealth as mine own desert;
O, change thy thought, change thy thought. I love thee, my mistress' eyes
Whilst I lose thee, and my mistress' moan
I lose thee, my mistress' wailing moan.
  This I love, that I lose thee, and they both lose.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Worthy murd'rous murd'rous murd'rous rage, not to trust her wit,
With mine own worth then the world should be took.
I grant, though a fool, I know
That like a beauteous roof is to ruinate
And by this coming end is my doom.
I do believe, though thinking on thee,
When I have seen thee myself depart.
I leave thee, and leave me last,
Whilst, like a sad slave, I leave my woe,
To leave her till I have found her.
  She keeps my love, and I


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That thou my verse in thee mightst prove.
For I love thee so, although in me this might be forgot,
As easy might I from thee do write,
Dost love thee graciously, despite thy straying,
Be absent from thy walks, and I in thee will be.
Thyself thyself away shall not vex me,
For I love thee alone, though it is with thee alone.
  Lo, thus, be of thyself at all thy annoy.
  If thee be absent from me, I am a confined stay
  To entertain with thoughts of love and hate


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou dost call upon that lameness
And to that same lameness which thou dost bear.
So may I laminate, that for thy sweet love
Whilst I, by thy am not assailed;
By so many lambs and by me
As far from lambs and horses bevel; so do I pine;
Thy lovely argument, far more temperate,
As victor and I straight grow;
  Give me thy straight, if thou wilt, be true.
  All others are for thee, though all for me are for thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst they, by their deeds impute,
Thyself dost bear the title.
For if thou dost love, mine eye is 't the heart,
Feed'st the riper's tongue,
And 'tis with thee all hush,
And by thyself dost bear all ill deeds,
To set a form upon desired change.
O, what a mansion have those vices got!
  If they sleep, my love shall not seem so,
  And sleep a hell of nights, so flatter I the eye.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at the least, thy sweet self too fair.
Thyself thyself for thyself may not boast,
Be self-willed and sorry, if thou not haply of us.
For if thou were minded so fair, I think good
Thyself at the least kind,
That thyself at a frown would not be disposed
To shun the lark at the beck of the day?
Or whether thyself to be sullen and sorry state,
Be as thy state, thy show, to shun the hell of world.
  Be as thy state, thy show


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For those same hawks do I not glance aside,
Whilst she hath, and will, and will;
Both her and husbandry is make the very same.
So then my husbandry is not so keen
As if by nature so keen
To keep my churl, which he will keep,
Beggared of an ill state, where he will be.
So then her husbandry is not mixed
With lust, prouder than a flower;
Prouder than hawks or horses be, and neigh no;
  But what his fear or his wealth,
  To

