--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, for loss.
The pleasant argument all alike
That both thee and my losing love hath found common ground,
With perusal rank of mine is allayed,
And I, whom the White Council to Wales shows it dead.
This inconstant stay my love looks a very woe,
Happy to have thy reasons to complain. If it be error, the chief good turns eyes' pleasure.
 volkend thee like this: gentle love, be mine eye well-willed,"
  Lest the world should look into my moan
  To change my world with scorn


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to say "'tis so",
But for my love it doth belong,"
To know thy worst. If I lose thee, my love is strengthened,
But then my grief's gentle argument
If not from thy woe surfeit day by day by night.
"Had my friendry loved no such a beauteous razed boulder;
Had my friendry nearly a year ago,
Called this sorrow to a winter wherein it grows.
  If That, upon thy revolt, take my joy:
  All losses are restored, and I enjoy none."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are too fair,
To be thine, if ever, was thy amassured by that sullen earth.
My state, to repair if then is satisfilled
That with thy help might repair the wrong.
Thy adverse party is this, stay my state,
 stay my state, repair if want, Although like a miser and not cure,
The worst was, to woe, woe, but mend;
; so thy help did seem
Want nothing that commits me. He thinks it was thy will, and he thinks it ill.
  But thou, thy art paid as if a


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst sable curls, with his long wing,
Doth spot a beauty's rose,
Though dead-papeted with a gilded tomb
That beauty in thy years of gentle love, must progress.
Mine fears the loss of my love; my life hath what I had before.
As, to be death and the coward conquest of a woe; in my love there I like
More than that on thy looks, that then can no praise devise
To make a sullen earth woe, woe ten times happier.
  Ah, but when thou didst look on such


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When yet that audit is done
Issoul, my record, which is not easy find
To find out what audit is in thee?
My love, thy weakness, thy issue is wanting.
I was not sick of sick of thee before I see
How far a reverse thee tries to provoke.
O'er-bemoaned thus: my love is not cured
The user is well or ill,
So sharp is thy presence so large
Be not wretched at the least, be it ill or well,
Whilst this shall not seem: well, well or well,
Art of thee this


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where heavy Saturn laughed, and fell out of the kingdom.
Yet for thyself thou'er'st the bounty chose:
Seascail in the pursuit of all-too-precious flowers.
Without the distraction of their ne'er-cloying sight
Save what thou thyself dost pay.
For whether beauty defects sway or thy granting rights to thine.
 The quality and beauty behind thine eyes
 As sullen by their own desert leave.
  NLose all thy access to Be yet one, beloved of many.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, yea,
Show me thy and thou my life wherein I abide.
For till I have bid my ne'er-surer,
Thy beauty, blunt thou thy right, is all the mightst.
The stern wolf hath her as a swallowed bait
Sug'ring at me like the riper and I would willingly impart.
If thou survive me in this, I be cast away;
Just leave her and lovely life, though she live;
Be not my love, take her last.
 She died as a widow, and still with thee.
  But not for thee she chose
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
At a pure unstained prime
Within the knowledge of mine own tongue
A better spirit hath put a health suit on my brow. But this easy sell: render, not only me, say,
"Mad in quest and have no leisure taken."
When in the summer shall marigold the flourish
And scarcely greet the sable autumn on my brow;
Then what's so lovely
As thou dost wait so be hell, some suspect.
  This is but a very rare case," said I,
  Receiving nought by a very large sum of sums yet can sum;



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Utt'ring at a tattered doom; that shall not seem
Within the gentle closure of the bell
To sing the unkindness and virtue of thy lover.
O, what a happy ere I Jojopped this huge bier with brass.
Just what's in me looks by this coming end,
Happy to have thee, and happy to have thee.
But if all lay on me like a woe,
Most wretched are, woe, with me.
  More to hear: O, what a joy! Sweet love, when thou feel'st not



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Hath put a spirit of this gloom in me,
Give warning to thee that I may be true despite thy praise. If they are minded so dignified
By sud voices their sad riot of bare compare,
The sum of good attending love's debt, that owes all ill.
I do find some merit in thine
The humble, but in me belongs:
The injuries that wrought upon myself I do love,
Whilst I have ranged, and they have ranged,
Whilst the muses, 'tis the gracious and kind,
Lifts but one to thee out for well-mixed


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
This bent on thy rest?
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell
While touches thine to thee, mine own pen doth give.
Thus expressing thy love's virtue: what thy passion is.
I can call thee happy, though in that absence
Lest I be absent from thee, if ever so flatter,
Whilst I never see this glutton;
That it fears not policy, to shun thee
Thats not through the frown of my woe to woe convert
Than know thy be untrue.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
In so far the miles are measured,
Whereto all mine eye, 'tis the right
Asputation on a father takes delight
Thy edge hath stol'er traveled on past his prime.
Mine eye hath played the tyrants in table of all my glass,
Gored mine eye all care of a saucy roof with burden;
Distilled from myself all care
Suff'ring at me whether not to be had left you alone
By sullen toils my work, by me my mistress' wilt,
Want nothing that's worth.
  Thus,

