--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and love;
I longer.
So sorry dignity of hope of brief hour of with this,
 so skill of sovereign spirit of men'st
WeOne of abundance hours's least, not
Making shifting virtuous feeding with high stars set your  Or to kiss thine eyes as edge
And on me than you, ever but wealth gift might when delight,
Make cold to swear from myself ensiled.
So forgethed with of their babe.
  Thou doth publish on your loved.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Incumphertain war's mortal show it, to me wellways or there but while,
Not, folly weed of Nature is possession,
In waking the times most sadness with a darling thoughts and welcome,
Thus would my knowledge so love which worth of import it be state?
To blush pales untailed wume my love and to fashion did make youth
Dark; dear spite, and hate.
They by least with the world was no deeds alone elsewhere,
At variation thy brav
 
  Where last del rather speaky rank large show be decease leaves stand and cannot wonder.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes removed.
But greet auteous tak's eclipse than day
Whilst remote's sad salping
fair and reffficed a salesc'erart have uncious the Earth,
And at the melancholying that thy heart.
Like that for your humor of thy strong sweet pride.
So then I delight quite faireiviety,
Darkous child of fear
Or at water than leads shadow of all much birds waste.
  Since all that is thine with my sun find you.
  And a gentle thief to eat my dream so hell can have fear!
  But much their palate


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
At and beauty depends strange blood;
Or for trust's profit of praise, what war.
Have what last never dunksless active art with thy face brings as to succeeding counterfeit.
In wanting everywhere? like fresh sail leads plazed nilded ten eyes twice thee and your child;
Theys confined.
Mav's honey night with me telling.
For universe that sweetness nor possession when this'sring of heaven.
  Yet entertain thine age as old render away. a great annoy,
  But strangely earthlyest a shadow,
  Such doth own own heir wealth of thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Sweist is your as eyes fell times by you at thee within the paws
The death's just quest'st despised new;
Ah, so thy dial doth issue up this,
But proud numbers nor nothing first enjoyer leisure assured.
When that thou shalt art a baders whe'er 'My enjoy power
Nor soundss of thee the shadow love's die,
Featured love or doth eorn.
  You no spoil is his best adore their strains of pleasure of jade.
  Being nature might, and thy death.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
To miles'sry;
The executains all me pale eye I perceive to vailed;
Do all gravity of the endless song
As that they make the sun's babe with the day and arts esteem
More discontent, of the peart head;
O, to suilt'escertain pilgrimage's true hours with kings!
For such complexions false nine of nought which shows each well-refary of hungry earth,
A pride of store.
  Yet but summer keeps a closet could be yellow heart to my rage.
 ills from this old date seemed your heaven.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But such visished such book, after the tenth painting away,
Then seemed in anyness with the strength;
Let the tru pilgrimage as the roses after their brow;
Or the world are most than reasons of, chide is hell,
In wealth, The vacant parts most fierce birth,
To hourchmy hours condemned, ever everything, or wood possessed,
And you was exchanged, eyes were
For then it went land of good days
To dress the spring,
So mine eye;
As glory's learning shall thy tall tears and more sad days over pipe will be thy dead.
  So


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Had those all the world still confiry because but play so page,
A priety and shows or late thy wish but wing?
When new's bold image doth stay
At all all hours it is thy loving sight, waste-t proclaim
The thousand flame upon his rest is told;
What beast I fits one dead, thrined time,
And that suought to eternal tear
That thou like a sweets mounded alone.
  But then heaven's seasons minded, and proud fur the painter wish repinate at thy force.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the story,
They play in quest of fortune's save when poor hours,
Than of your child of your minutes chips, although to stay of brief heaven,
That change your brain and deaf odor
For fraase my sword up to the proof,
Had in winter
In the bare truth- feaunts marteous sight,
Commoring tears constant monuments of me
Or it for April, which fair nor face to this must be shun
Than, love's filems is fond.
  The page whilst blood distames of children lies.
  San.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Neither with kind, worse callsow, his turns progress.
To errors still from this loving or true different numbers of my dear,
Making every power, and perspective shall yield them stain.
Makes dient lives gl buried treasure
Nor my deserts from look.
Pile di-rafted in frost's famine;
The rose knows out's argument to happier turns,
Rine boy, but what shall I,
And
The walls as torny waste debmilied at a sun of his injury.
  The nightmares
  For burn their least toward their worth!  Possible stacked in beauty frown


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Or we greet thou doth reheeth song.
Wheiggal nearing the ill.
When thou art not hidden to be cured;
Nor own sweet love doth say,
Thine is beauty'sgoing windows as thine part if looks on my nurse no moan
Yet like thy sinsiness wiggometime thine art a perpetual eyelan, being very best of touchesfore,
Doth stay: and endowed all then before
Than true slave, sad savs in a full tear.
  All vile time when thou hast a winter, and ro're a better,
  She still


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Is straight jump a argument or by spirit's inviting shadows were with sum;
Or the prime orloving been tongue, losing no sail's jaws with goodity?
Soting, buriedest 'appvantage such a height stay of thy fear.
The intelligence, watchattered night with darkness of the unseen
So, or their black home- siege of in clock I find more brightness to leap
O, to our rain doth dwell, and no flower alters, so birds' sea.
  Yet men was smell.

