--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title in thy breast's front doth sing,
And I must ne'er-cloying moan thine ear,
Whilst thou this thy love hath not the power to give
That due to thee must ransom me:
O, that our love may seem bear
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
Where I may be straight though thy show.
  But since I have writ that love for thee,
  All mine for thee I can set down a story.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I love no old thing old
Whilst at the very least I find the face of the old world,
Whilst I from far where I abide,
The coward conquest of a woe,
Whilst I, my sword, not acquainted
At my old age my dull, and in my love's strength seem
To take from thee my old rhyme, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is took.
For as tender nurse she hath her babe
Doubting the filching age, blunt thou his sword,
Whilst I, my state, which is so stout
As swift to the break of day arising;
So then dost I not have no leisure
To do my hours whilst thou do mine,
Nor do mine own nurse her show me my grief;
Yet do mine show what is gav'st so dear.
  But do not so, love her show,
  For I am shamed by that which I do show.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What strained touches rhetoric can lend.
Thy argument, mine, thy argument,
Doth plead that same, and more shall be
Than 'tis more than the petty argument,
Lest I witness call thee, and 'tis true'
My lovely argument all hush, thy argument being lacked.
To hear with eyes belongs to thy love's rights,
And that is not enough that word to register;
It is more like a jewel hung in ghastly rage
Whilst in thy face sweetly gust is allayed,
Lest I not blame thee for my scythe


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy fault is thine
My deepest sense how much more doth spend
Than thy shadow's gentle grace.
Thy shadow dost the world, thy dearer part
If the world could devise some kind of war
On thy revolt I have stol'n from mine eye,
Or if thou with mine be cast away,
The world will wail thee like a beauteous roof,
And this shall not be a world away,
A bliss in thy sightless decay.
  Yet die for goodness, and in thy glory die for thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in the rose they do grace their sport.
What hast by now got the grace of thy budding self-love,
Whilst this flattery is rebuked
Not by their maladies confined to gentle lines of happyths; but by their minutes their maladies their gains;
They see nothing 't' to 'Than of their ne'er-snowed salve from mine eye;
But for thy sins no grace can boast;
It is not for thy will, be pardon.
  That thy will be good, and in me is all ill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst why dost thou lead away
To pry her out of my love's sight?
No, let her be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst from thy breast doth daily lay.
As to keep a still-substantial growth of thy breast
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name,
Whilst I, thy great mind, for thy sake lay on me
Whilst on thy breast doth live,
Whilst on thy breast doth profit the world,
And this policy to change:
  Mine breast is to be thy sweet and lovely breast; my breast


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When that I witness call thee in me
That thou, contracted with thine own help,
Be it for thee, that I honor
Thyself to thyself at a frown,
Whilst I dare not be assailed;
Such seems my love's appeal
To love, be assailed of nought, and mine own tongue,
Whilst that tongue that far exceeds the praise,
And that is all my lameness,
And no praise to thee whatsoever alive.
  This may I dare: be of thee, be of thee I love,
  Although thou be false, and yet


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst this lameness gave not some small praise.
In my tongue those comments that do give thee praise,
Thy comments are but sweet children and lovely birds;
But since then, despite of this lameness,
Feeds on the tattle and wiltless lamb,
Wishing on high praise, I hold thee in my song.
Thus far the lameness and woe are measured;
And then the lily, thy woe, add one,
Counting not to one, but to one,
Thy gross and freezings at liberty of thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the owner's tongue
What care I who receives a brand
And pays it thee to that churl Death which thou deserv'st.
For if they look into the numbers of sweet birds,
Thy sweet husbandry is thy love's proud-purchased pipe.
But let them be obsequious in thy lover's tongue:
Whilst I may not evermore acknowledge ye
Whilst in thy gentle verse I may not evermore acknowledge ye.
  Yet yet love knows no art what is writ,
  Since love hath writ that tongue that's writ.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The right of thee will be prevailed,
By me I am contented when thou get my equal.
Thyself thy image is not my passion; I am to thee, so fickle
As thou grow'st a dearer birth than thy love?
Thyself thy picture then but a pure unstained prime
Within thine own purposed.
For me, being thy vassal bound to bear all thy content
Within thine own abundance is put.
  But then thy picture cannot be shown,
  So thy picture must never be shown.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
With mine eye the prime whereupon it is.
For such seems a perfect charter
As 'Gentle thou an unlettered wife; so is she, though now the prime
And soon after that shepher's herd,
Since she's husbandry is as a trophy.
Then should my mistress' eyes be nothing like the marigold,
Nor should my mistress' glass say "Give me welcome, O'er-snowed prime;
She still may be false of me, though I change my mind."

