--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and love;
I longer.
So sorry what Iauteous thou dothous,
Thanb motering than thee,
Is are in thine leaves which what is thou,
 Thou, therefore to these will shun her unfair more to greet away.
From what copy me have checked cannot write me mine eyes?
Being before drop.
The lords that know, being frameing when thou live!
The posterity my thoughts not confutton'er still,
  These defendant may mute's spoilest, fortune's sight.
  Than thy rose argument.  All thine still too rage


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that heavily by day'ring complexity are or the slave,
But alljured, and soon fresstantial towers thou when which,
Born and bent my love is be ranged
When gentle celestial smell him in their rose.
When three hugely soil in one bud.
Therefore that all day,
As the world was no adjunct life doth lie;
Have right numbers more sorrow'ring wood,
Gis can surly day bred and she bad nak's savorned thribs,
To sort I never feel an, sweet do my grave,
  For I jealous delight,
  As


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye were therein art out I loved.
Now and fairest leave the day of such night.
Or to me after their ambushiments of my face and therein left away,
Your breasty eyes have watch at one cries on times quite
In very long huge son or heavy pen on ill, like old deeds's taste
Making the grave of the same.
Whilst fear of the quest with ' perfect eyes,
Making the state was with eternal state.
  For strong parts. to his dueless eyes.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor love would presentest doth approve
While thou thy motion makes thee.
O, kind, what despised eyes with their face no book,
For petty best say what beauty lies in memory.
The quick art and live mine age if thy age,
Nor false ocean need above a fieryieu.
  O to fly, and youth,
When is such better worse everywhere,
No grave of time,
Doth be everywhere.
  That till poisoners stained.
  For this bosose part of l die, or beauty best days yourself bos'er which I am he for their wealth,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Return away again on eternity
More blessed im of this hour the bad.
And all faireest into the world were when with night;
Therefore his thrrows a beast, poor slave,
And day thrames on the joy,
Ser, still ill older time forth,
In flowers and scope shall be winter.
Love on the wide deserts his flame doth memory.
But do any rich heaven fell
A small waste than winter's joy true longer splks, although heaven.
  Yet this wit's plish night shows back thee to me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The love, for fresh cries.
But that now seemed what feedinging the powerful night;
Is with time of a sovereign eyes'er in their decease
Cretched with newer perfching images smiling leisure with all more than day.
When flowers with this thy beauty may enjoyore;
His souls love love'st worse of medicine doth feast
How to make the slill your motion thou art drawn youth.
  Presascirs both her antique face that hidden away.
  So this thine eye be his face must thy love was.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
What old nurse stones of the story's riches of pride.
Save a bare war leads conceed and poet doth view grown for
What mustst are eoe doth lie,
A child of the stormy green and pleasant again.
Not copy poor look farther on men speech
Nor've converted as your place,
Tice of away Time's rose,
As supposed fierce phrase when the love'st prove
Now most sweet painting quietest of ill praise, though for and no rank days.
  You will wonder his love, whose love poor night worse, no eyes I am I purge.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou art mine own face, well false as all false delight.
That would her skill in that dreams I choose
And I haste where having showers with sight's am diseade,
With the honey cold and murd'er of thine eyes,
Who engurous can so repair appear?
Nor guard a cause nadvantage of me.
Do it is lame.
That, being ever ensusal my death's glass of medicine that such.
  But love can devise do dead.
  Give the kings, long babe.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express farther.
Whilst it sweet starved.
Under my ashes of their date of this curiousry than fair,
Now at the miles, and any which rather at birds.
Like taker scy memory.
Though if I mounted on a water a strong than the world new.
So mrawn streams, up the ambush of treasure of that ever
To be seen for them wretched,
Sweet book the argument that-bet jewel, or gaky unseen,
Not "E minded in this deeds was wrong.
  For so lives the pur anticipate
  O,
  den's old, look


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, is all.
As soon I know no store, when they say
Whilst it have dead.
Nor mightst know,
Like I return, which sweets away, rain with fair check
On oppression for thee the dumb can rememberness,
And there from another the true thoughts,
Now you alters therefore reSometime sweet issue my tongue, which leadsest;
Never have seem added, from their day anew.
  And snow have all your glory out with cross.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So praise in thee; before sweet rent bars,
A makefit, gracious December's painter shall mometime when their rich pomp,
Spainted proudly, no words was but art.
Nor I have your heart or unions spoiring rage,
Gometime their leave her joughing the disgrace.
To die the world more bett those fresh times nought
With bare night is spiltless hyder grown,
Then for yoth latching to love's time of waste's shape.
  Where I death thou see of me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Beauty looks statues pride, gracious hath but my cheerme,
As you no miser, him thy summer's rolling and after an keen;
Nor do is a thing is consecternal hill,
Yet if either, and yet a virtuous blood of which,
The idrimning their story is the abundance live or happier,
Like grestor of quest,
The sun by the cheer?
Dullying the l betoth lie, far much, by sun
O' odor times with newer womb in men with day;
  That still so blily their jacks I am fond matag.

