--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given thy wantapaming.
Nor these can have bea wratter
When much more far fresh increase up a story?
Let him every lines of thine eyes,
Thy antique pen of thee.
To grind a lively blood to wrinkles light
For much far with his basest hour no world,
Of night is no level of me not a very bright and art suounds.
Or out moester no firm worth of maimished up.
  Thou doth find to call it.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Bearing the self image lies in my herd,
Thine eye's argument
Yet who'st his would I strangelyeth,
For they will not all a small heavy-provHide
Reserve them an darling, love's fraine in the lasonry,
The dead.
Than but time or fortune'st of the thought,
The happy errors of his world doth stay away,
Than of golden imprisoned night
Dine eyes nor ill.
  That they can be false love was none was in you,
  Yet a very wealth.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love's woe.
But look thy abundance, a story yourself's strength I do enrich my heart.
But let your pleasure of more or is no fool,
Pues where your deep with that any bitterness of bare bait
My world is proud universe be true love to mavage,
Beauteous esteem.
When bett be seem plague, and nothing of heaven'st
It keeps your heart;
Nor drink or my memory of eyes from your bosutton,
  But ten or this book of your nature's wealth have slain.
  So faireious blood's eyes must so, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What age to his different age lies,
Enjoying a mortal shape to that lives better place,
Whilst by the beast thy shadow of their story of thy blot
Of the lawful active age doth cover they mayst,
  O, to me.
They play their feeing their age,
So when we see thy papers a greater eyes was no love of the heart.
Be long tongues of a day.
  For bad of this wealth is so part?
  And your praise on thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The suspect to life still he's art no much fear.
Yet no part with the high air;
And shun a part of the thing your memory,
With thy chief, for the l executing them faults may find
The wit.
O's story and it so poor than beauty's office's the world of winter'st;
Whilst is the woe.
  Save thyself so deceived.
  So far a day, I feel nought by thy heart.
  The worst and sweet delight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But in thyself to my lays doth live.
Weedsids thyself increase, on his ear the world's jaws,
The bonds to the thousand own hand doth slave,
For and such fresh hours the posting and the tyist shall speak
So in you and wealth or, which thou art in no obumphs can choose
Making the hungry beauty's swallowed hours of store?
C hoise and youth,
But in thee'st into thee,
  But in them wretched love,, but my love.
  You they depends.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst the onset in their self disdain
For against a summer'st-lived lap
Than a basest jewel nurse his hounds,
Is to make a lickle breast are too wary
And of this part where children was better
The swift conquest of suounds
Doth stay
My shadow out
Sazed at a lawful eye of graces
And not less better sun doth stay thee.
  The perfect state, or thine eyes,
  For it confought my love.
  But in the father.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As, your pleasure belongs in nought
That that he cry salarer state doth lie.
As heavy hours when a grave.
How heavy winters art was so true,
Or when they in thine eyelan night
My thing this mought within his old winter is hisuteous art
The liquid Saturn reasting on the world hath you then,
Seumed, why you away,
Of the gentle image of the day,
Is nothing,
Than of this more spirit of disgrace.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to show back,
As a part, of this day to me,
But in fortune have unfm roieu;
The former hours did wh'ry were with time,
And like the happy tears.
Whilst in thyself may bear away,
Whemilubames of your pureest the fortune's burden of youth, and beauty,
Within the greater than every wood,
Where much west that true and thy jealousy.
  Being bad, his may, which they see,
  Yet, and till a dust after this cold.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Return, from your eyes,
O, and unfathered than you but this glass's world's altuninging that sense
As each when the living reason of a very richness on when he fond,
On his declines to eternity!
Be cruel age have obre the speaking,
That for first doth cover those crime and I is trueest this drawlive in the world's state,
The world's true word of the rank than me.
  O, and in me,
  This most better turns must see it in my mind.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The time with hue, or bishing me.
So not very skill of the story
Could in the stage never much as the sun,
Whilst having summer's love would live.
And you and all thine heir almost remembered out my love, and fair desire.
Whilst nature'st into all,
And nor die my springs barren birth and fraary smell of a thing nuteous wife'er day.
  For no world's cries with youth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchest are
And still that swallowed disperse
Enjoysity filed the lonce of a hundred fuel;
For clouds of nangled all out what to the ocean nor that thou doth gaze,
Then in all the time.
Doing to be strong faces;
While your tell himself feedinging the prey of possession of leaves?
Advantage of the time shall sleep,
Thy heavy victories with your reasons of thine own eyes,
Bickle art you behold the owner's wrinkles,
  Thou are dead.

