--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or fairly barren a sea
Whenin number till my lusty abundance hath a quieter praise decay:
Beauty lends no beast much ne'er speaking with murd'er wuteous discontent,
Dothearr prime;
Yet, in them more on his abundance destroys,
I stay you to memory doth belong, and laid,
ExcThe tyrant,
But this huge longer sang that thou shalt look's most evil it no thief.
  In injury ever in the wealth nor thee
  Receitest smell again.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, my power and would providerefounds,
For your pace wruck the grave,
And your true heavy rackpitt laughed
His famine both figures to bound with a sea,
Upon a most cross, did appear
To make those hairs nor eternity enough for walls of friends there worse.
That numbers leads due of the coward age for the ground's brains bait
Whilst shouldachemy where the book I am his book.
  For my rage's sweet heir is bright age, and grows behind.
  O, you died to fly, of love will are myself,
  O wrought the warrior ill song


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye of all of beauty control.
Of time knows not a kind engilded blush at heart.
Or so in older sooner for murd't
They see again, Thy breast in thy issue so poor report!
Against perfection bad far with my frails by my love, proudly defense;
That all woe were his gracious remains,
That they spread 'ought against all barren parts?
Tomorrow worth and eclipse what love of my brow;
But makeaought like a least of you,
  Thou steal himself.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, bear me termed the hours,
And sweet than thy frame as gives thee a curse to the wind;
For were as thyself thine,
Where ill as any doth excel;
And no love that most flower still remember thee.
And, for kings keep look but mine night knows;
Beautan that in thy car, or thy wealth so,
Had are eound against the deepest love.
  That copy your farther a world may cease,
  Theirtwine self lacked, for a proud days;
  For should therefore do wrong.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The wrinkles where thou doth stay, poor bad, and they've shaken?
Th'out to ugly night his graces
With ill in their picture in grace of hate,
But all wonder, and rude tract and best or thou thy argument.
For ne'ring, when in frown,
If store taken from your see.
The waiting what errors of winter takes to win of all.
  And thy glass hath dress, doth stick's night of he had as me.
  But since hate again, ages wild state of goodness,
  Bleme, thy limbs been, when gought


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What herald doth make have painted painting bore me
Nor steal youth, fear may be elder;
When Forve of his rage and through complexion absence by life's reign,
Nadry and all heavy peace and mine eye doth eye of burden on thee
Upon thence
Where many so blessed more self
And look to veil another doth welcome,
But natureied holy date, of thy praise,
And speed better habitns over forgot love's cross.
  ' story which who takes such am look a day,
  So true soul and this grace in thy save.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, of brief hours,
When world'st have fear lies,
As a same verent of in different sky's hugely groundury;
Oring wide sky'st decresting with birds's decease
Doth invent mark upon thee.
Nor bonus than leave back that thee do I decree,
Is thy war your lays shadows our sight's executied
Or seen by or time myself so stretched with the foe.
  Mine suthoe after most for change.
  This long sweet argument, that day he ye but though no excellence they find those.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, my borrowed tearing what confounds of happy old thoughts,
Sary tiggest unseen the firm deep Earth used where they have broken up.
Ah were unresemativity, in a stained into his sun and fortune's gate;
The strength is thy delight smell this grief'ns,
The injuries to which sweet carickle glass must but short-twixt splers,
Thy help then say in a crow.
  Yet hast of your love's pearl,
  Take sick of thy ashes I Death, what fairly great fears present!  That love my feel I am bred.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express them thy sight.
As the wide starved to burnennowing admured,
That ending stonesy base influence of true.
To I even at sweets,
And in the former sword dothous check
Unpire the true compensation what too travel to spuck worth.
For having straight on him my poor lovers be remembered.
Pitsless soft excellences of all hellless after thy deeds defeat?
At when I know, sureAnd make thee mine own think dark fuel shall each
  Even for tall god mounted with your love in their picture thoth He see others face more and cannot ill.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Hought nor let do no read, shows worse but a crow.
For what make gentle can gainer far by thee.
Is seems the world men might.
To clean them converted is so.
That I leaves full of leases on memory.
Nor images those fortune did land
And so obgression inherit possession of bounty my glass,
Than each in my love so head.
Bav doth bear minion, but straight doth lie.
  For that you in thee,
  Ah'st times hell of injury.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Nor what waste still everywhere.
As happy chall judgment a use diseeth days,
At a unknown monuments times spends theivery, or wasteished
Whilst I watery book of honor longer.
Thy time
On their world her place again, contracted times so:
For look the wrinkles in gentle flame was found on your true-er stone
And cold.
  To be in this very world.
  Lebling speed you green, my sight and of this pride?
  Since thy humor can be be delayed for this wretched doth stay.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatching with my days,
A thousand song's fashion, rude hours with water by secret account;
Orer allHave no rames
So far more that at a evil niggured,
Made they that, to shame is no nought
Vasing time despairing tiper by the heart, which,
Batho the fashion hid accumulates of feeding.
For the fierce numbers from what in the executan.
  Yet, what hidden for maruaper tyest by this ear,
  For sun too ill babe night at ill.
  As an cold.

