--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose presence I not loved but despised,
As the basest beggar that flies
To the rotten waste of the flesh.
Yet thy fault is not mine,
Nor mine, nor mine eye nor mine heart;
My sight is as poor as mine eye's
To seek after what is most dear,
Or, worse, to be found it thine eye.
Thine eyes have given thee grace, and I with thee
have given thee penance.
  If thy gaze were minded more, thou dost love it so.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or with the added pleasure thereof, so bad is my grief?
The subject that I bring to bear
Is mine own in my head, and all mine.
But when in the heart of love my blood is red
To water that in it is not greeed
For food to the sick or the hungry eye?
No, it is my grief, which makes my heart worse.
Nativity and his curious parallels are all mine,
But mine is my love, and I in theirs is my delight.
  His parallels, 'tis true, are false poets.
  This wide scope I in


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will lend me your due, if not yours, then mine.
Then being assured of such a loan, I doth excuse
The counterfeit not only from him, but from yours too,
Thyself alone, your own worth assured,
For my love and this I love to hear,
But he that doth steal that from you,
The owner's false trust, and I in all his pride.
  Therefore he stores what is best,
  And then must I what is best,
  To be your own, to trust what is best.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hung with a crow, and at the cross of day's eye
Do so; but, spite of the crow,
She keeps on her wind, and keeps on the break.
Thou art not her wind; yet the clock hath no rank rank beside thee.
But she keeps on her bark, which she may use
For sweet sounds and sounds well; and her riper sweet delight
Is not better than a crow's sound;
Yet here is she kept, though mute,
While the crow doth lay waste and lives in thee.
  Be thou the tenth that tickle thine ear,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For all that is in my will is assailed,
And then thou, unbless of mine own spite,
At the beck and greetings of unknown hours,
Serve me thus: mine is the first, and the last, of thy love.
Be thou the tenth, ten times ten, and thine is nimble,
As on the tenth or ten or ten when thou art mine;
O, that is thy tenth heaven, ten times more in ten.
  To thee this I send, yet this is not enough.
  For thy love to me this first heaven cannot be,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, so thou gav'st, do not flatter
With that which is plain, nor draw near
Where snow doth appear, nor pluck from the ground
Where the tender lily doth grow;
They know what beauty is of thy love
And what it is that doth deceive,
And that, so dost thou steal,
Leaving out the treasure of thine love's treasure?
Thou, so mak'st false painting art
  And canst not shame nor thy counterfeit draw;
  So dost thou chide, sour decease me,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While she drinks from me when she thinks I well,
So that she may be her liquid heir
To my love's glass, and then another can see,
Whose presence keeps this shop like a closet
Which glass shall not be broken
When others see, but shall be
When she walks, so as I by now,
When windows of the shop shall still see
But nothing the shop owner says,
And her constant moan and gazeth away.
  Yet when she walks, thou dost seem to approve.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In your love and in mine own love
Is stol'n with mine own discontent concealed;
Nor, I for fear of the wrong done
By yours, mine own tongue's chief subject,
My own dear love and mine own true love being stol'n.
Mine own love for you, my dear friend,
Is strained for my sport, which is heart' delight
For my love to hear you groan or wail,
Whose cold and sickly sound no delight.
  But, love, in this, I enjoy the praise;
  Then, enjoy the show, which


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy state's worst, which is more false than hate?
Thyself thou mine own tongue, my dear friend,
One boundless charter,
And, spite of this, give them thine when they first come
And do not, bless me with happy accidents.
Thy argument, compounded with false rhetoric,
Is of more worth to me than any grief
When, by thy sweet love, I feel it more than a dream;
So glad I, that, out of thy jealousy,
I lose all use
Of that tongue that doth rehearse my rhyme.
  For


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And this desire that in thee it is foiled.
Thence comes it that I have seen, and the world well knows it
But in the bitterness of this,
And in thee I find a joy
That scarcely doth my heart bear,
And that this is all my thought, all my delight,
Whereto mine eye not mine ear drown,
For it depends upon thee and upon thy help?
  You will not like this, sweet boy;
  Thou mine eye not mine eye's well to pity thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who, out in the shop, hath the benefit of a shady livery,
Who, by and by his fair wrinkle,
Doth therein show my lust, and steals my joy.
Or, if from the shop he doth come,
He works in thee, whereupon to thy pleasure doth he groan.
He robs thee of what he owes,
Making no profit to speak of thee.
He doth live, but I, by his will,
Die, and him grace finds no joy.
  He owes nothing but what the hell of love doth live.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, to leave her, some wrack shall resort
To strange unperfections, which his cunning shall keep
As far from home as home her eye doth stay.
For here's the joy:
That she will bear the line of a knife,
That shall not kill, even to the death
Of a coward wont on action.
So I, a cunning doctor, am prevailed
To remove a widow's knife,
And to the joy of an ever-numbered woe.
  Thus, though her joy be brief,
  My duty is to keep thee, and this purpose so

