--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, who in thy sight
Thy beauty's hold is all too great,
And, spite of thee, I in mine own sorrow
Do my worst to look into thy heart,
Which, having thee, I scorn to look into thy heart
For such an abysm that my breast
Is in tattered showers.
O, let not thy tears deceive me,
For thou, my love, will not stain mine eye
For thou art thy advocate, my love's stain never stain mine eye.
  But if thou look into my sorrow,
  My grief lies and I in


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or death?
Is it enough that when I am dead,
My lover's spirit still with me,
To bear him where he goes, so that he may still live?
Is it enough that when he is dead,
My grief beguile cries amen
And he that calls upon thee,
Who for thy sake gives him so much delight?
  Or else of you this happy accident
  My love's strength and thee so great.
  For thee, my love lives and I am happy.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will be the gainer's war.
Now I have, and he will ransom me
For him that pays the ransom of his love,
And for that he will ransom me for him that pays the ransom,
I will be a free-willed wife;
Now I am married to him that pays the ransom,
And he will ransom me for him that pays the ransom.
Now, let him say more, that he will ransom me for him that pays the ransom.
  For him that pays the ransom, I am his prisoner.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I will grind thee to a halt,
And thou, mine own sweet love, will grind
Thyself to a halt,
For thou art mine and I am all mine.
Thyself, mine own sweet love, will grind thee to a halt,
And grind me to a halt,
And grind me to a halt,
When, mine own sweet love, my own sweet love will grind
To a halt, mine own sweet love will grind
To a halt, mine own sweet love will grind
To a halt, mine own sweet love will grind
To a halt, mine own sweet


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy gift, thy right, is enough,
To me this gracious privilege is not enough,
For that which it contains, it must be obeyed;
The better part of thee is in my will,
And that part of thee which I do trust,
The sooner the better part of me to trust,
The sooner the better part of me to trust,
The sooner the better part of me to trust.
The sooner the better part of me be crowned,
The sooner the better part of me be disgraced,
 The sooner the better part of me be disgraced,
  The sooner


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, for they lack not the faintest part
Of thy largess they look into thy glass,
And in their amazeth they see,
But, strangely, they are not astonished
At the sight of thy largess.
They know that thy largess gives them a wondrous vantage,
And they know that in thy glass they see
Thy beauty's hidden treasure,
And they know that in thy glass they see,
And they are quite right, for they see what thy largess doth lie.
  And, thou blind, they see but with thy glass,
  And they


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she is but the child of a very rich
And that spends his or her leisure.
But in my love's love's love I find
That this untrue, that she lives
Without all care of thee,
And that, by and by, she lives
Without all care of thee.
For when she fears not more than thou,
She lives, and thou dost love her so.
  She lives, and thou dost love her so.
  She lives, and thou dost love her so.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what is 't but a song,
Or the fount of praise, or the livery of the show?
O, let me be obsequious, that my tongue may rehearse
When this strange beast hath leapt
From the farthest heaven to the farthest earth,
And made my bones and wrinkles thine,
And made my veins thine for his sickle;
O, what a joy it is that mine eye
Hath leapt from the farthest heaven to greet me with that familiar sound?
  O, no joy, my love; but, like a lamb, it


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy rage, which in thy breast
Doth dwell
Within the sweetest bud.
Thy pen, that hath more than ink,
Lest I be dumb, or thou be dumb,
Thy argument with too much hate be laughed,
Lest I be cast out of memory,
For the joy of thy story,
And for the praise of thy deeds bettered?
O, 'tis not enough that tongue's hate
To rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse, rehearse


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that like thee do,
Whilst I in thee my love do,
Do not so much as mine eye my heart's view,
Nor mine own tongue, nor the dear friend that calls upon thee
To hear the praises of my song,
And in thee my dear love's praise.
Thy love, mine eye, is my heart's feature,
And for that it doth play such a part
As mine own tongue doth rehearse,
Whilst mine own tongue in thee doth rehearse.
  Yet this thy love may be: mine eye mine eye hath the right


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, having mine own sin, but with mine own sin,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of mine own love being made,
Hate of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, having fled the ambush,
The wrackful wrackful o'er who slacks,
Doth catch a woe, and then finds
That, having leapt from the ambush,
The wrackful wrackful o'er who steals,
Sets down a mountain with his scythe,
And, being made of woe, takes all his delight.
So that, having fled the ambush,
The wrackful wrackful o'er who slacks,
Doth catch a woe, and then finds himself again.
  But this time,

