--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart
Although thou e'er their shade wear away my all refigy.
I besiege them all, still with hell,
Against thee I have no way of escape,
And so will thine jealousy appear
After a false heaven and drown all at once in thine eye.
Bearing every man's brain, mind and body in my sail,
To remove that worst curse that murd'st me most is.
So I sail alone on, and eternal sleep ensues.
  Wilt thou wilt review my death, O friend?
  O my


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For more is more torture than pleasure to myself?
For myself miserably sellered and sold for my dear friend,
Who left me ill to attend in numbers,
And why I have dined with such woe?
Why dost thou stay where I am?
Why dost thou scorn the rich that sing
For thy love's favor?
Why dost thou give my wooziness my respect?
  This my friend told me the best loves rhyme:
  "Sing thy praises to me alone."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not receiv'd.
Make good the summer time with this rage
And do now my hardest duty,
Of music, painting, feeding, and all his rest;
Thy must've sad accident should spur another beast
Hiding in the canker-rout;
But that I fear that he should, despite me, besiege
My love's head; curse that for love but thy heart!
  So my husband is full well,
  No need of thy humor here.
  His sweet effectioned widow, dead nature's child,
  Leav'st through thee assailed no


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That thou shouldst from whence issue thy largess.
Thou art all the happier for it that trust so
Admits such shady messengers to check.
If thou trust in my worth, thou believe'st all things.
Criminals, rich and poor, never will rob me by such pay,
But, methinks, I am all out of use,
Hiding far too much in wealth and in trusty deeds.
In this I find the most wondrous and o'erlooked-after,
But thou cannot know it without wonder.
  Give him none, O Lord


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thou canst shake thy head, tyrannous eyes,
Whilst I and your glory find
Are basked in the heavenly banquet:
Thy murd'rous absence and inviolable ruber
The scope of thy shadow's front are immeasured,
Thy pride in thy power's pipe content me much,
For once doth my head call thee heir and mother,
When thou shalt have crowned to this tomb.
  Then her sweet spirit after thy beauty finds,
  To greet thee with loveliness and bereft beauty's common eyes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know what souls dwell, and desire to live alone;
But this false sight ill obtains thee,
It cures thy heart's infection.
Thou art his heir, if that all might strive,
But art the sick, wounded, controlling loss
To ransom all thy argument with eloquence.
Him and me both be sicken that our voices should drown
Without mute groans or for any help.
'Tis better to trust Time to pardon than to hold thee alone,
  Lo, by the wise time hath made thee a fool.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
I do believe she is brave, brave deep,
And brave warrior rich with fortune's sweet shows.
Yet whether such a doting sovereign be
As much mine eye hath seen as I can bear to tell,
The moon or the sun or rose, or even I in my love's glutton
Although none but thy merit thine writ.
  This I will not acknowledge as true,
  Because I love thee, though her lie return.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If my mock grow bold I, lose my power to rank,
Authorizing thee in my living respects.
Methinks thou, possessing unseen grace,
Are not the one who calls scope to scope's short scope;
Savage and unwarranted, thou being a losing battle.
O, beware, know that I am thou forsworn:
My name is thy teeming seal:
I am both good and evil, at the same time.
O, in addition, be assured I am to thee;
Nay, that sometimes gives me some solemnity,
And other times all have ceremony


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express such taste
As bitterness should defeat a breath distilled in sullen mar
Of bitter adjuncts. For no man hath there one prophetic phrase
Which on tyrants decease too much.
For this reason add to me a spirit of youth
That I by love can crave
And be truly love's sweetest ear.
But it doth love this praise, my love, when I say it tongue-tied.
  My flame for love doth stop and flame prove
  Be strong enough to stifle the heat.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which, to love, one fears one worst crime.
Thou art my soul that follows dead eyes,
Which in thee slumbers out whose glass doth show.
Thou is the founderer of minds dead tired,
Which till that time exudes decay in 't- dearest sight.
Save that my heart in thee abuses the contrary report.
For thou art my shadow, and things new are made.
  So Death and all his impure grief subsides,
  This change, though hasten, was wrought by thy losing mind.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With those who since decease have took from thee!
Thyself, art my sullen respector,
Whose ranks, our dear lords over us,
Are being checked every blow from thee.
I say it makes thee forswear,
While thou, whom thou hast overspread is transgression!
Thy dignity be removed by scandal,
Be to these, o'er aye, second by offense;
They that decease that such a disgrace did stain thee!
  So dost those that travail the flesh of men,
  Although they frailt-more


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
Proving love by different seasons,
The imprisoned goddess proves when I see:
More false is love's reigned
Than an old proverb that flies in my head.
"Nature's will are best borne," "For sure you change
Her gentle astronomy and love's laws to her arts,"
Most assuredly thou shalt find
A right goddess; she hath proved the decease of me."
  These words thou wind will cover this book with dregs,
  Which I love better than knowledge is.

