--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine eyes thy woe is my proudest praise.
Yet these eyes with their more tender eyes delight me more;
Thine eyes, in their bright, as thy brass,
Spend their fair light upon thee,
And the fairest hue, the fairest shade,
Shifts up heaven's wide ocean to my sight.
  For thy good pleasure and thy purest love
  Thou mine, my eyes that seek my treasure.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Since hell to me now so cheap is hell's new lease;
I'll straighten the debt that I did owe
And do heaven's gift to you by paying it back again.
For that I am so ravenous
That I crave eternal ransom, and need not all that much worse than death.
Thy love, by thy counting me,
Hath paid thee one earthly ransom, and so hast my life.
  Lo, thy love hath all but one treasure; it is mine, and thou, theirs.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes
Will see true and you true love me still.
Now for my love to be so tenaciously distilled,
My palate doth persuade me
That love is better than to have drunk;
Nor should I inform him I swear that I have drunk it
Wherewith I never-never drunk mine own blood.
Such a state of affairs would I not be so much on my guard
As to praise his virtuous deeds!
Thou art true to myself, true to love,
And to me quite assured that thou art true;
  If, methinks, thou wouldst break my glass,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
More than enough is my plea that thou shouldst fear me
Unless thou mightst have my love returned.
Thou art more blessed than I that thee shouldst leave this world,
Than possessed by my love's roof,
Than I that dare to inhabit thine fire,
Whose fierce flame should burn with my sweet love's eyes,
Which, like a child, should wrack thy bosoms,
Since it's most painful to die, but to take thy life is thine.
  Then why should I thine, my love no more?
  If, be false,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, wait, that thou mightst know
What distance hath drawn thee to me from heaven,
From whence I went thy body's way,
From whence thou shouldst my name should lead.
O, why hast I come this far from thee,
From whence I to thee I should not depart,
From whence thou shouldst leave me,
From whence thou shouldst leave me,
O, be assured, this is not thy thought.
Yet suppose it untrue that my love had thee stay,
My beloved, knowing thee would go.
  The gates of heaven are not gates to hell,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet they see nothing that they do not see;
For what beauty dost thou look upon,
Looking on a never-seeing thing they would not know?
The eye that guides thou on
Hath a semblance to thy intelligence,
And thou in them, all naked, dwell'st.
O, what folly would that thy blind rage yield,
A single jewel gazing upon thine eye!
O, know thou not that beauty dost niggard hide!
O, what truly dost thou thief show,
That thou shalt end up disgraceful in thy sight?
  Look what


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A ripe age of shame, heir to the past.
Now if I repent, let me be remembered
For thy sake, to love as I hold dear.
I love her dearly, though she deceiveth not;
Yet if she make amends by deeds,
Let me be remembered not as a miser for my bad luck.
Look at what a common lover thou dost taste
Excuse where my temper; here it is I hear;
I love her dearly, though her adulterate stain be.
  Lest thou shouldst, my queen, be false of heart,
  She lives


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be most kind, most kind, most gracious,
And, if thy defect should besiege me,
My grief is that I should devise a remedy
To mend the diseased infection.
Let thy womb be filled with thine eye
And thine blood with the infection of infection stain
Some one habit, some other kind;
If it be diseased and stained out again,
My gentle acquaintance with thee will cure
My grief not with thy deeds but with thy fortune.
  Wretched art thou that I should so ill repay
  For which I choose not thy deserts to prove.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such faults as this: 'tis not thy fault that my breast hath contracted
Though it be outworn and bare bare,
Too heavy a burden to take my breath from.
Thou art so cruel, and yet so sweetly enfeebled,
That if I win the argument, it is like to me,
Satisfied of my burden, and sure of thy help.
Haply I see thine, true friend of mine,
That thou wilt be contented to be so bold.
For thy sake my maiden lease is so much more strong
Than thy glass, which thou


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Though this groan calls thee blessed.
Therefore, for love of thy heart, do not look on me thus;
For in thee thou have a thousand sins committed,
And in me thou wearied me to write this verse.
  For thou shun'st mine eyes, my heart that loves is broken,
  In me thou sweet thief, and none mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own sin, true love, which is buried deep,
Is not despised as so, but not despised,
Though thou be despised'st, both of thy parts.
Thyself art my god, whose art so strongly buried
That in thine eyes I look in thy breast,
And, hasty to judgment, look in thy face.
Mine own image is so more than thine,
That, still more strongly grounded on thee,
Thine own light and thy image that live in me.
  To these my reproach and my love are alike.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her herd of sweet-tanned-pig'rous lizards,
Which equip her with speed and strength
And all her sparkling wealth in all ranks.
She brings with her all the bounty of good and ill,
And all her wealth and all her knights
Haply bettered with all the spoils of war.
But if, being unseasoned, she keeps her eye
As a waiting-day party,
She may spoil the day with gaudy numbers,
  And all the tables of her proud knights
  And all their riches all she's made.

