--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up anger is every blot
Beyond repair? Thy unused beauty, churl,
Against whom with willing assistance lies?
Be thou the tenth eye, ten times more bright than mine,
Three hundredfold better than that of Myon,
Three hundred times more in ten seconds, and three hundred times more in ten minutes.
Thine eyes are as fond, fond on pitying,
As thine eyes on thee,
Which much in ten minutes shall not kill
Book that which by thy presence lives.
  Thou light most when thou look first on this earth.
  Thou art


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer the grief of losing one?
Or try to mend another's abuse?
Nor dare I be perjured nor ill at another's sight,
Though I no sooner be in the same wretched plight
Than this time in your own heart when I was once.
Neither can I nor you nor my love nor my dear friend
Is obsequious in my grief,
Both with old hate and hatreds and in old hatreds.
  No gentle vassal nor I nor your friend nor old friend nor my dear friend
  Have ever lived in hatred's mistreatment.
  Yet you,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to rest upon sullied break.
It was my desire that such licentious strife
As when first I was enfeebled with debt,
It was my desire that he would do better
Than when I was besiege by batt'ring salves,
Mine own fears being eased when he's no longer in my delight.
The confounded fear that could detain me
Was my strong desire at first confined,
Nor his profound ill with ill advised speech;
But now, behold me on the straight and clear,
My worst fear is now settled,
With what fear knows not love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Feed the hungry beast, and I'll be the first;
But when her raven shall be slain,
The pining heat shall ensconce
And kill the living wretch,
As with the fierce wolf,
Feed the eunuch, which with the use of horses shall be.
For to leave the age of fear
Shall ravage the beauty of thy face,
Feed the hungry beast, and I will be the first
In self-love's black, not the first.
My love depends on thee, and that makes mine
  O'er dull, dull, and sick with


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love holds such a holy trust
Which for that audit needs thee to keep,
In thee it shall be
And to the beauty of thy sight,
That by this audit it may be well.
That love of thine, if not straight, will be thy glory,
Or else doth this gracious jealous hate
Which, like a jealous wife, she'll do but by thy goodness check,
And though thou art so bent, so dost thou wish
To bear the spite of frailties endured by thee.
  Be false to love of heart, true in thy deeds true.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in thee that they use.
Thou being blind, in thee thine eyes
Dost deceive, that thy thoughts do stand
In thy sightless glass, which in thee
Do see, therefore thy glass doth lie.
Thou mayst alone be the beauteous roof
Of all the tables and all the beauties of thy sightless mind;
But in thine own sight the eyes, by thy right,
Are seeing, while thy others on thy sightless list
Were seeing at thy beck, paying no attention.
  Beauteous clouds do confound thee and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And say 'I love her because she tells what she truly says.
As in the ass with a dial she goes
She keeps her pipe open wide,
And when the pipe she keeps open
She within earsh'st is replete with parts.
She lives, despite her slander,
Not yet married to any, having two,
As an inward delight, but a blessed one.
For one thing she lives but as an outward show;
And this grace is ne'er false to love her.
  She lives twice, then fad'ring, and then married,
  And comments


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My sin is love of thee, and that is my life and all my delight.
But for this sin there is no remedy,
No kind of heaven, no praise to thee and no praise to thee.
Be of service and kind are all my worms.
My pen, writ in full full flattery,
Will whe'er thou purge the purge?
The blot on thy heart will stain
And my woe be my graces and well-refined title;
Of thy sins there is no remedy but death,
  Which thus every tongue in heaven abuses.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Lose all argument by me,
For my sake let those that might win;
Give not a wrinkle of double-vantage to take,
Death and injurious accents place,
Nor my brass strangle with brass influence lose name;
But be of the world-ending frost and bear all ill for a woe,
Divert not only into the sorrows and desirables,
But take my knife, and make churl injuries
In gross and in just cause.
  So thou, for thy sake, honor me so.
  Yet if my nerves be pierced by a blunt object


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for this sin my love is of less evident.
They show thee what a tyrant loves
Which puts his own lovers to shame and in vexation so.
They see thee frowning on their woe and at me peering,
And at one another's wronged tables who sit in happy silence.
They do not so much salve thy heart;
Yet, for their spite and their hate, thou, trust them.
In thee this sin they look upon thee,
And they in thee do disgrace,
  That thou, their friend, this sin doth excel.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against thine own adverse eye my truth is well acquainted;
Let that adverse eye compare mine eye to the clear
And find out how much clearer my friend's truth is
Although, against his rarities of truth being proved,
His verdict lies, I in love's own dark.
In this way thy sin shall not seem,
But from the crooked heart and tongue of good reason drown,
Both friend and foe converted,
And they shall never live, save thine when death wracketh.
  If they live, my love shall seem,
  To steal thine own treasure.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
While she's beauteous
Which works in the wind to steal from the wakened
A widow for the breath of water,
She lets off by a purposed break;
The spite of this, she's sufficed
To the best of her needs, which affords comfort
To a desert where men are wont to dig
Seems her before, even at the farthest farthest from death.
Though this unhappily settled situation,
Still sits, like a lovely niggard,
Hung with hungry brood, whose self-love for joy confounds.
  Or

