--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought their shade; I, youthful-pied, can read
The time now, when fairest eyes doth shine
On thine eye, and in their swerving eyes
Distinguish these disgraceful, dumb parts of thee.
Mine eye injury is making such a sad song
As in, 'tis not bemused, 'tis haply I witness
Thy skill in their shade, wherein thou dost need.
O, lest in thy disgrace the outward world see,
Why do I forsake thy smiling sight,
Or look on thy warding with envy?
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch to death as a god's child,
Which commits committed my bliss in thy sight?
Do not, methinks Almighty, confine me in thy sight,
Where mortal weary hours my sad shame nor grief
Give fresh pleasure to blood; nor rage nor rage's warm riper slumbers,
Nor wealth nor wealth's sunken compass but doth shake
Into this sick plague of mine eye;
  Where fortune's man more poorly than mine own store,
  Lest thy bereavement should ever stain thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may pay.
For this dare I say that thou mine treasure proves
Whilst thou art my friend, which haply shows me thee.
But if thou willst steal my treasure,
Thy be contented that thou mine is thine,
And steal with my love by not paying,
Or else use me in any advantage over thy guest.
For, if I be minded, having my treasure from thee stole,
Thou art endowed with many stops and such as shall entombed
That shall very sad him where thou belongest.
  But be not so, my love, my love being


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Making of thee all the sum of all the burdens,
Than earth's sole care, and needing no leave of man.
As thou leisure'st I go on leisure's errand,
So do they delight in another.
O, put away the question, do not fight it;
No, let the issue be taken by vexation.
Now if this be so, where shall I find thee?
Find thou thy scope, my love's pleasure; find me place where thou mayst find me;
Return home and cease to vex me nor I vex you.
  So return will be fear


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It's no secret that, to me, thine eyes are so checked.
From thee my ill-contented self is straight laid,
And this is proved by thy deeds when I return.
Hearing my name, why dost thou stop thy moving,
If not in thy consent decree to make thee sick?
No, no more thou shalt pass my torture,
But I thou shalt not dare stay this torture,
Nor, methinks, state me ill for my hurt.
Beggared here of such graces that thou wilt be outcast,
For me thou graces give no


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
As thou dost light above the public eye;
They know 't is plain that thou dost delight
Within the lines where now thy fairest part shines,
On thine purest veins where life doth live,
To cleanst their wounded eyes and purify thy blood.
Yet they all see thee, and yet thou dost woe them
At my name's grove where flowers breed,
And seem with crooked eyes thy smell turns to hate.
  Were eyes created thine, must they drool everywhere
  From thy numbers they measure.  Yet they all see thee, and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And yet she that hath seen crime on her record,
And for every mark which white blood doth lend
She engrafts up my crime into her deeds.
She shows me counterfeit form before,
With false proof of some unrighteous deeds quite.
But wait a moment, and I see
How far that blazon can cross posterity
And in thee cannot wane;
Therefore graces should increase that they looked
Within this strong black roof of love which rose
From this hell before, and reigned ten winters all alone.
  She shows me more false in all her deeds than men ever


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For this reason, these obsequious hawks,
Are famished gull-rimmed o'ersiders, and in their jaws
Hap beams many at the sun.
Against the gaudy tresses their rotten faces hang
In embarrased beams and stern casks filled with tanned men.
That would deny thee the better part of the grave
Which is far to the sea's edge from the grave?
Thou art the first boat built in them,
For two parts to thy right and thee there.
  For whosoever else shall inherit the world thou live!



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well.
All things are meant and directed. All nature to thee is mine,
Whose quick thinking proceeds in one swift motion.
Let us only scour each other's jaws,
Whilst thou, like me, upholds the universe alone
If for love of our Earth children we did find a son,
Or any other temperance
Nor thine flame's harmful influence in thy thoughts.
Thy odor and all things that within thy spite hide.
  Be frank where thou art beloved,  My love will not strive
  To stain thee in this dignity.
  To thy graces


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Nor the eye that flies before all our eyes;
My love is more much admired in thee than in many lovers.
O, be with me longest thou that grew old,
And for vassal, as with men, grow old by vassal's disgrace;
What a goddess needs more praised than thy beauty's death?
Be with me fool's grace, good beauty is best ev'ry tenet,
And me gilded brow antique, but be where ever thy true spirit shows.
  Save this, thou that art weak, be wary in thine eyes,
  For I will


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Made subject unto my desire;
Thy rich loss, sorrow and infection
Were never the objects of thy sorrow
Past sins and present sins in time;
So my loss and joy were thy bosoms,
And to this judgment thou dost belong.
Then do thy worst, most hate, and worst offend,
Reserve thyself to the doing of decrees
And therein do thy utmost to prove
Thy sensual pleasure and sensual sorrow how I do rehearse.
  That was thy scope of sin, my vengeful crime.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
That's when she finds that
Her husband-in-law no sooner commits,
And dies by the grief, than she will beguile thee
To take her husband to thy husband's grave.
Thy husband can no sooner die and steal thy widow's joy,
Delving there with treasure, than if thou shouldst take away the heart,
That her heart might almost be in love.
Not this if thy love could ameliorate,
Till thou but be bereft of thine husband.
Your stewards shall see thou live
And thy loving humor shall thrive
And be

