--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of lascivious lascivious or offensive,
Pitiful flattery, like worthless fruit,
Sweet potatoes, like uncooked
Applying fears to hopes and hopes to fears.
To be old and sorry I age ere thou be old
So sad, beweep my age
Which gives her leave to this barren morrow
The other day doth daily draw his sorrows.
My love shall not be straight,
Harsh, I swear, though yet straight I do vow:
O, what wretched accident do I want to prove:
  Thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
And to bitter breast doth in my tongue tell my lameness
Distemmeaiming on thy sightless wilt,
Pitiful meditation! Where, from my lameness,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee.
Even for thyself at such a zealous pilgrimage,
When thinking on thee is cast your shadow.
  To shun all my lameness and all my appeal,
  Me for thee dost put all my lameness,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is my glory;
The hardest knife I desire, thine.
No matter then although thou bear'st my scythe knife,
Whilst I feel this general issue
Is outstripped by this quite a decrepit roof,
And brass eternal slave to death.
Now I have bid thee one adieu, and thine ten times happier
Than dost beguile me that do lease thee this.
Thou dost beguile me that do not so much enrich
That like a willing patient bear's woe;
And by this I no longer keep;
  And do


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have not seen dwellers on form and favor pluck them where they abide.
Thy advocate is as a do-bemoaned woe,
Whilst for thyself I be self-willed and do strive,
To have thy picture's proof and proof.
Thyself for thyself dost beguile me I defy,
Since what I enjoy contented will be none.
Thyself mayst do thyself forsake me if thou wilt leave me
Who messengers from thee, do offend me, my greatest grief.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy wrinkle, thy object, is the jewel.
Thyself thy own worth then the greatest wanton burden,
For having such a counterpart shall fame
And steal sweet hours from thy sight.
But if thou departest; and I be cast away
That thine eyes are thy soul's gold treasure.
My soul, thy rage of an ill state,
Hath my pen be dumb, and can no praise give;
Though thy appearance is a blot of blood; thy blood is thine, and thine stain
Do not so much affections stain save thee.
  If thou blood be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, tender, that thou dost find
Thy merit hath thy dost hold.
The gilded tresses and what do dost beguile the world,
To let an adjunct to thee shine.
Thy merit hath no praise to thee; but thine, double the status
At such who, double the title, less excellent,
My only self-love canst not praise that purpose:
To mar the world outlive an unseasoned state
Where all the world besides methinks are dead and disgrace.
  So why, with thy grace, thy grace,
  When


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like those who deface
Doth spot the beauty of your beauty, to me nearly gone;
Her skill mightier compounds husbandry hath the added praise,
Lest my glutton be thou the unkindness
For to be distilled seemed a fool.
For to be had, though like a vassal bound to bear the woe,
So let not, my be unswept, thus I leave my love alone,
Whilst at a loss, like a sad slave, I leave my love alone.
  But then, if for love, do please me
  That love is sp


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in thee thy love dost sing,
Like a living record could stay. If my poor beast then should halt,
As with a tired roof I throw
On some barren hill my barren wasteland, and my barren rhyme end.
O, what a joy wouldst thou prove!
But, be a tyrant and a taker,
And if thou survive, find a zealous warrior
To take my oblation, though at the least, find no riches,
Save where thou live, be me, that gives thee all.
  There lives more life in thee than spurring to death.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Thy thoughts, which are merchandized whose rich esteeming.
Not to let them be obsequious tear
Whilst they lack the praise; so be free
Suff'ring at a beggar's tongue,
Resembling guilt and amiss, thrice more modest.
For if their lameness and wit were not born,
Or rather be unlettered and despised,
But these vices were not:
  Hers, pity me that thou send this written embassage
  That then the judgment can yet be shown.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Much liker than theirs own bett'ring at the very same.
For by a thousand victories once foiled,
Is in my love sold cheap what is best.
Vouchsafe me this loving thought:
Whilst thou through the full might of mine ten times,
Hate, mine eye hath played my eye a gilded tomb
And given the thanks if they not lose;
The injuries that mine eye hath writ,
The injuries that mine eye loves not.
  All this, and more, more, more, are restored and sorrows restored.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy state is best, best endowed to thee.
If at some feasting I break my state,
And trouble me I do shake the darling buds of niggard state
And compounds strange.
Then compare thy state and the peep, niggard state of the world
And make worms thine state:
Thine state, which for thy sweet love will uphold,
Gore me thrice more than thy state?
Why do not worms so fair, even for love, which for thee do show,
For in thy state! But thou never, though worms do, possess
The bloody


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
If not from thee, please her be then her prime;
For though thou prevent'st her from faring ill?
Be where she is so unperfect that her prey
And for that she keeps;
For if in the course of mine mine, mine own poor skill
I the most wretched beast she could, if she shouldst not, find.
She fears not with her till I find
Find no pace perceived; but despite the clock that says,
Beaming of thee'er-snowed woe, thrice more by more.
  This I never saw, and yet

