--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine golden eyes art drawn.
Criminals, 'twixt creatures of black, must be bred;
And all other race with excellence and decayed.
Yet the bright elements in thy sight
Are best attainted for their beauty's extreme;
For without thy graces those fair faces on Earth
Can shine any shade against my flame.
  Then I may brood, and in thine eyes my joy shall be found,
  Or rather at thy burning heart's level may I cry.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor tills the sick days nor prevent some ailment
Which goes both to this evil and is there warm and lasting,
Where vexatious pains like to my heart subside;
What hope in absence finds my action,
And I, 't possessed with all the pent-up grief,
Thou dost all battest of monsters bide their time.
Some more seemed to me, to torment than myself on offense
  And possessed with that shame into my room
  Than on my blackened brow and buried face;
  Were it not thee, fortuitous summer that vade hell there


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may witness
The sight of him in your night-green.
Beese me not that the clouds were with me that night
Nor I him that slept in all night,
Nor for fear lest I should kill thee in the way
For a ride up-the-pits of Mars with hailstorms or sea-mouthed
If I was the better eye, dreaming of winter therein.
My argument that this sky before is to stay shadowless
And farther removed than sleep's decease would forbid
Is but certain that it fears not now,
  Even to my seeming is death. But


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To steel and take her away from thee.
Make no fear, love is love, and thou alone
Is my love a swallowed lie, masked in hate.
Thou art so, and I adore so much greater than thou art.
Thy unfair brain, all unbounded, is everywhere thinking
To steal thy love out of me, thou art my key;
My churl, the darling clay in thy joy,
Roses all up all that might deface thee.
  Be gentle when thou shalt steal a hold of love,
  And abide in me like a slave where thou dwellest.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For a right argument in love
The scythe could prove three times more harmful.
If that right issue appear should prove a fourth
To my love's second argument,
And find yet another left wanting,
Thy soul thence wilt be called a churl.
Since thou shouldst pass this question, consider if this be thine:
I suspect thou to be in my love's deeds committed.
Look what it touches that steals thy life; yet thou unto this thou thinkst poor
Thou wilt live it out, losing my love's widow's love.
  Give my will


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and abide therein with that idleness
That leads them where thou art. Yet these thoughts stifle grief in my mind,
Thy phantoms, sovereign Nature's children, know none of this
And thou alone prevent'st what may lie behind thine eyes
To watch the wastefulness of thy folly.
All sinful tyrants and men of love no love,
Gainst Thou and disgrace mine eye.
All idolatry hid hid doth lie on the face
Of love and that hell of hate.
None but thou thy deserts dost lie
On thine eye and those that dwell on


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of hours more esteemed than kings.
Since then to thee my praise for words stands
And, knowing not beauty nor thy age,
Suff'ring what age you come from,
What mine own false faith doth but question,
Unintelligible thus my deserts:
  My love will it all by thee this time,
  And that her lordship on earth forbid
  To constancy or scope your acquaintance.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Ask not what fortune hath forbidden thee to attend,
Nor what grace hath this lovely stain abjured.
The true nature of thy sweet love is replete,
And in posterity for eternity thy sweet-willed love might yet boast!
Nor, woe to me if fortune do forbid thee,
But be assured to thy true loved,
Being buried among thine eyes.
  For fortune gives what he graces thee,
  Finding thee dead and posting thee heretic.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill.
My best argument is that in this I am drunk
Of all quick parts, which make brass no main,
And so far are my chips and eyes all shaken from thee,
O'erdoing myself good by dressing my misfit
With sportly hide-trials, and neck high adjunct of good
By force of nature's will to break me up,
That having shown thy worth and me now high I might deceive thee.
But if I desire thy true goodness thence, let me be told
Thy worth is this, thy wealth too much and this abundance lacking:
  So, '


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Making errors, inventing fortune.
Mark, what an ass with clouds cloud doth fall
For my countenance is bare unlooked on,
And tall mist that wanders to sea hid;
Mark it, thou replete with new wrinkles,
My yet beauty, if all beauties shall hold,
Will trample down at thee all burdens of men.
But this is not to be condemned thee:
Thy glory lies hid within thee,
Lest I public disgrace should waste my beauty's sport.
  But to thee mock what tyrants my might say,
  Wretched lam


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou gav'st love from me,
That thence never hath my love divided;
Nor hath that love transgressed one more,
Making a plea for ransom or none to pity.
And yet thou least hope, amen,
When I desert thee, my poor pen will bail
And send thee back in disgrace,
Desiring that thou mak'st vengeance of all subjects lie.
  If I could make thee forget me here,
  My love would shun shame and hatred everywhere.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Races on that steep bank again and again
To hurt that which injury! She rocks heavily, and that swift will repair
That mortal bough which holds the dead babe still!
So are you fools, being still woman of this earth,
A bird which calls away a dead husband,
Rains on that bank, rocks heavily and flies.
  Thus keep it a constant feature of thy papers
  If lines for you that day, whether in front or behind.

