--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet this is not love to these eyes,
They see thou this unseen, this unseen beauty,
Above all descriptions of my sin,
But in them I am shown thy beauty;
That beauty to thy eyes it hath never been,
And so, this imaginary nativity,
Though it inhabit all shapes and most unknown numbers.
  Yet such love would not leave me alone
  For in thy love my image thou made.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That if I chide you from hence,
Who at my heart's rosy brow besiege,
Or else forsake me for shame,
Whilst I by fortune's splendor spend the night
And never see the sunset.
But if my heart be so beset
As thou art, why, if by fortune I be absent
From the sight of thee, why, by thy deeds, I be missed.
  For fortune hath no tongue to tell thee,
  Not sweet, not gentle, not right,  Even so when thou dost speak.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live.
O, for my sake, be of more assistance,
For that I may be loaned mightily to thee
That my gentle fears should again be laughed
Against; for fear lest I should lose thee,
Myself and my dear love to thee are alone.
If thou trust this, dost thou stay
Nor my fear that thine eyes will wink out.
I will not forsake thee, for thy sake I must remain
Though thou lose me so dear.
  If ever there should behold me by chance gone,
  That I should leave thee, so be it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So thou, thyself to me the great,
Do send to me what thou will,
And show me your favor, gracious nature.
Nay, if ever thou art found wanting,
Ask thy love, and find it quite loveable.
Myself so much in love is like the captain's black,
And there is not so much in the captain's eye
As thou shalt desire that can vex me.
  Yet though love be inconstant,
  Love is still in my thoughts, as the captain is.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thee, be it not said that thy soul doth wait for the judgment;
Thy breath the earth doth burn my clay,
If thou mayst lie awake, thinking thou wilt be a judgment's grave.
For with thee, worms do drown,
And thou art both sick and dead.
That is why thou art not wary, being wary for thyself.
Thy case is not in thy sight, nor thy name that thou wilt make my day.
  Thy vices are not so, nor thine but themselves.
  Thou hast but taught them that they should be


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in that they should desire no more
For an eye that in their vacant minds doth desire
Seeking another's shade and that dost love in it.
O, now thy sight hath thine eyes,
And in thy love's rich violet is beguiled
The sight of tanned black hair and thou see'st so well
That thou in thy love's bounty mayst see thine own eye
And most worthy wink not thy wink,
Nor thou ne'er thy beauty findeth the blush.
  This ill blessing of thy love doth leave thee,
  And thou from


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Finding me an untainted adulterate creature,
For in this I was the first and the last change,
One that wished to breed with my muse,
Which since my sullen youth brought no consummation,
By sensual poverty or character defects to my measure.
Thus I am assured of your good name;
That I was thy slave, and that you in this passion hold
Sometime locked in dreams and in perils of life.
  Since this time I have lived, and yet you I find,
  Lest that my love would prove me wrong.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If I have good sense in thee,
Hang in thy breast all the rage of bitter argument.
If, like a cruel tyrant, I was thy prisoner,
Thy rack would still hold thee in thine eye.
Even if thou art woe to me, my judgment would not excuse thee
Nor know why I might not call thee to be missed.
That thine eye doth my heart weigh and estimate,
And I thee outstripped not by thy odor.
  And if I find thee indeed ill or ill-prepared,
  Give thy all to be had by thy part


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express that my beauteous humor.
When I translate the verse,
The clerk stops, and says: "Ah, that tongue's fond of speaking that is rude.
Whilst I say this to thee with the utmost dignity
Thou dost erred more than my insults might lead me to write."
The clerk's eyes are everywhere dark,
And I see eyes that no color should deceive.
So they can see but one shape of thee,
That to them straight from thee lies their joy.
  The sun hath but one feature in thee,
  Which in thee doth life lie,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And frowns upon their defects,
Aye, my love contains all wrongs,
And for that my hate is so heinous
That it destroys from me all respect.
Since thou wilt, my heart with all my slumbers doth jump,
And all my goodness doth allege
That my despised hate is so replete with defects,
And thus 'tis, in my deepest thought,
That in my thoughts war with me every day.
  For thou art such a grief and so sweetly I love
  That my loving thoughts not, yet, do so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but with thy own love and thy love's love's love,
My love is thy name, thy love's pleasure;
Thy love should I make for myself,
Without thy abuse or thy abuse's sin.
O, thou thief of my love's lust,
A thief of thy love's love's lust,
Thy love's theft can find no remedy.
Thy crime in thee is my love's crime,
My love and thy love are conspired;
Thou, my love, is too much at love's worst,
Too much at hate's worst, and thou


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For well thou mak'st not thy womb subject
To that second wrinkle that hits and thorns the grave.
Thine eyes then are so keen that they see
The prime of days now, and this second shall shine,
Serving thee if thou willst stay thy glass's sharp.
For although thou art so keen and gilded,
Thine eyes' dullness hath made thee so weak.
Look what thy palate hath left behind
To clear it up by pluckin' the red blood,
That by thy taste distils thy sweet graces.
  But for thy

