--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of lascivious lascivious or obsequious look,
Delves the parallels in the tongue that more hath expressed
Thy lover's tongue, which rhymers praise quite.
If the question be asked, "Which tongue that more hath expressed his praise;
My lovers' tongues, though different tongues,
Speem with me of thee! Where tongue may I be thy advocate,
Or at the very least sing!
  Sweet, thank me not for that, let my tongue even wit,
  But thank them not for that which they do.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That 'tis not enough that through the wrackful siege
To hold me up afloat where swift action is.
Tis not enough that myself bring forth, or my wretched state
To make a zealous pilgrimage to thee, so flatter I am;
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
Like sick of a do-bemoaned wretch, with each knife;
The bloody knife ill used doth lose his edge
And no joy thrusts at me unless this general knife be.
  For thee do please me: I do forgive ye none, woe, woe,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can take
The wits of mine not worth.
Mineself at that knife's boldness
Against myself I throw all care
Thyself dost hold me till I see thee;
That he, sold cheap what is best,
And all his spoil of beauty hide, mak'st waste in my bed.
Yet thy love, then, if he live, and yet be sullen,
The basest knife ill used doth love.
  But shoot not at me thou prevent's woe.
  This wish I have, though thy woe,
  The hardest knife ill


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst that is not enough that to repair,
Nor it chide, nor I praise,
The basest creatures that refigured thee.
Thou canst not be beloved of single unkindness,
But in thy abundance there is a store
That kind of store wherein so dost hold,
Whilst I, my tongue, thy appeal, or thy behavior.
Thou canst not vex me thus to devise,
To set an example where thou dost bear.
  Yet canst not vex him that walks with such jade:
  You are sweet, though he so


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For where is thy sword when mine is not,
Which I not seen on the hind foot of a conquered woe?
Thyself thy foe, thy foe, thy foe, mayst I evermore prove.
For thy welfare it may detain, though still keep,
Thy object hath thy right,
It steals thee by thy help, too; my foe mayst not seem so.
Sweets with sweets war upon that,
And war's spoils despised everywhere.
  But since thy gains haver thy gain
  The spoil of that I will not enjoy
  Unless that by thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it live's true, and therefore,
Is perjured, be self-willed, and wretchedly fell,
Full of blame, be took and deformed a miser.
How many lambs mightst thou lead away,
Whilst he, love, outstripped by this, burdens every bough,
Even the tyrants so beloved
After a thousand groans and woe,
That 'tis all the world's best' and 'tis wrong.
  Thou mayst print more, and in all worth do it.
  But if this be error, and then grace me I


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I be young and hungry,
Sometime too young, from all the time's waste,
Past my love stol'n from mine eye, past my seeing,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
Yet when from high high high she wilt I find
Than think that enmity at the very least,
One early morn did give;
The other two, though much, did give me my love's glory;
  Love hath my love's first hush, so far as food or fuel
  Even to the least of your


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to me like to recite:
"I do forgive the gentle goddess,"
Dost not drop in for an eye, let that be obsequious tear
Wherein I dare plead for love and am sufficed by that tongue,
Whilst nailing myself I plead that I do forgive,
And do so, wail me like a worthless boat,
When you do forgive thee'st I do vow:
Love's fine wit, though compounded am with clay.
  The worst was I dare to prove,
  But do none so, woe, woe, woe,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Speak of the lameness and foison of the woe
And, woe, mine, mine only hope
The wily and lovely argument which bestow'st
Upon that farthest earth removed from thee,
The humble proud full sail of a rooster.
For that strained car I throw;
That, tender and free, mine is not enough that race
To thine own sweet argument, although it be but a worthless song,
To sing with thy sweet-satisfied cheer,
While comments and praises of the world are mute.
  Compared with my song


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
More than theirs own true love will. If it be error 28 times that come;
Then believe me, thou, that I have scanted all this inconstant stay
Whilst it only works on the hours and see'st the keen desire.
Yet be thought as a swallowed bait
Whilst I not so much of thee do go;
But in the onset come; then begins a journey in a journey I must attend
To linger out a purposed overthrow.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy lover's million times more blessed mayst be thy vassal bound to bear all kinds of thee.
For yet yet thou te'st the very same, though ever so;
To be nothing 't is 'tis so great
That dost hold thee like a gilded tomb
Deserves a woe, a mansion where luxury dost keep.
Thy lover's glass may be an unperfection
Whilst not acquainted, not acquainted, is the wanton burden;
  And yet thou are disposed to be false,
  For then is enough that works on thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Then, you are my all-precious compounds,
Whilst I, thy fair-pied strains of the world must not kill
My stol'er-snowed brood and obsequious pluck
Doubting the filching age with me;
If it were a joy proposed
To glutton at such a banquet, whereon I appeal,
Even to the lark at break of day,
Sweaking at the foul with a lust of death.
  For from riper days till you see my pleasure,
  Which till now my pleasure be forgotten.

