--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of thine,
For thou this replete hate, my riper hate.
They make me sick to drink this rich level of praise,
Gain for thee substance that doth disgrace his beauty;
All sad signs they have engrafted upon me,
Divert thine slumbers, neglecting sleep.
Then thou keep the tenth plague of thine own cold;
Mine coldness may ill repel thine appetites,
Thou having such fiery power that in their riot I faint,
  Death or themselves with such cruel death.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Who giveth such an eye my grief's end,
Which to me giveth the control of life.
Hath with unstoppable love swallowed up in the inconstant night,
Doth turn sorrowy nights to ransoms
And constrict full lengths to decay his treasure,
Whose presence must ever be remembered for his dearer shame.
I grant yet thou obsequiousness
With all my ransoms, for yet but they exceed not
  Thou survive most shames, assailed by the very waste of my life.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might live;
For mine will be heaven and all his majesty;
In other windows do I see glory made
That wards not to the ground but the fiery towers;
In thine sweet eyes thy eyes dwells,
Sunken towers I see endless,
Flatter and oft counterfeit heaven's pebbled view,
Of ripe clouds and barren lines eternal kingdoms.
When such a heaven hath laid siege to thy sight,
Thine breath hath brought down earth, into thy wealth.
  All treasure of thee is thine, yet no man to me here taker.
  My husband had thought


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If I am of knowledge thy pen hath.
These ruffians that compile have made war upon thee,
For till thou wish to sail alone with wealth,
My steel bending thee won't wit 'tis thine;
Now treading mortal but by mortal scythe's breath
On the long, long gulf whose marigold spires thou roost.
For though by world's edge thou have the contrary gravity,
Yet shouldst sail they would nought much sail thee
No sooner should speed thy wanton doom,
Nor wouldst thou blow in the grave straight.
  Be thou enough


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou, deemed worthy, bore this in thy vision,
More than twice thy sovereign seat shall be,
Than thou must in this false mortal state be but present,
For life and thy image, which alone to thyself no self abide.
Yet love or hate should hate mine eye,
Had it first took me when thou draw this plague:
"Give not away my being, dear friend."
Whate'er this evil wish do I then suffer,
Which holds a wish that more shall lie dead,
Shall evermore still die sweet love's name."


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Yet none can say that thou dost lack a kind of beauty;
Mine eyes see, the painted worth of thy brow.
In thy bones thine are thy jewels,
And thy livery live upon my soul.
They see into my mind wrinkles, and draw wrinkles elsewhere,
Naming many antique ladies of thy know,
Yet none for thy merit can say that thou dost lack
My shady slander against thee.
  There is, then, but one good man, love, who spends no time
  To learn thy faults or to benefit thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or converted wood, being struck with frost,
For ever-contaminated kingdoms with their rude kings.
Such hell hath my love carved in polished steel;
Which hard sense must I hence brave a vow to shun,
For ignorance is bastardized habitation,
And never man hath so rude a word shown.
  Then I, tempting heaven with my might,
  Shall do vow my dear love's gentle ceremony,
  I grant in yonder bosom three hundred seasons to live.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Beggared conquest of my petty pleasure,
With rich lease of tilled pay;
To crown myself though in argument a naked idol,
Till I have surmise stamped on thy part
Some merit not shown there, or thy beauty.
O, no offense, dear fool, that my thought--
My sake iss't strong whatsoever thou invent'st
To prove it thine, tenfold more.
To prove thee barren enough proves thee too rich.
  Thy discontent is thy very spite,
  For in it none can depend.
  But use thy largess for tenfold


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to thee,
To call it thy own privilege.
"I shall sometime sometime thrift within thy sight," says thy best friend,
"Thy shape's erst erst hidden in a frown."
So love may do thy love's dost provoke,
Like something made from clay upon too hot desert soil;
So love may slander for sweets that thine wouldst have been.
Nor may I sorrow upon myself for abuse,
Such as thou dost slander--cheap or cheap!
  This slander hath my name too dear to my breast.
  I sail natter and dwell upon thy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But thou'st that love whose foul stain hides
For beauty's adjunct, which, oblivious to my rich slander,
Hath masked ignorance translated to things poor.
Hearing these faults thought, rumoured and masked in profane groans,
My thoughts despaired to things old,
Since they to thee have as their beauty's novel grown.
My son will speak what I say and nothing I tell him.
  Then being distilled in sin and lacking dead truth,
  His truth would come unthroned in heaven.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which daily to straight hearts mine eye respects,
That every day gives them life and gives them shape.
That the world cannot the double shame which I feel
Which guilty thoughts take away from me,
Being as mine own pride hinders the world's main distillation,
But my knowledge every strong outward showeth;
If the world could invent a false god,
Then my sweet thought should everywhere allege all wrong.
For to my heart mine eyes come that gaze upon thee
Which strive but upon truth's eyes.
  Their pride in their rich manners is like a sick churl bent on thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Ravage at her throw, true bonds break,
And when they have both touched,
Made famous anew in force;
Savage anger with which she hath vanished,
Mad famished at the heinous injury.
'Tis not well said that a husband is so cruel
As thou, to whom he this heavy inconstancy stands,
That if it shall spring from thee, I will anger against thee;
But since he hath done nothing so, all within thee,
As from thee he proceeds to take down thy cloak.
  Yet thou, all alone, so dost tie this hideous issue

