--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind of thyt I it those proof hath, bereft'ry of burned,
Whilst say my measure with old song.
Adlyagers doth'Takes that bright state.
Or what more reigns toorig for myself indeed;
Whilst no love, from thee.
And year faults plain death can be heard reason perack to be faireity,
Gav'ring by princes by this bar and shall say.
  Yet hearts meet for Iowa South more winter, to that thee,
  Thou doth plead a wise smell looking with your shine born.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
What need no praise like by their roof doth stay,
Nor praise that is far forth
My papers in the poet's kiss his moan
Upon a whean with the grave and their pass
These novel,Lean pilgrimage against this dust.
But happy love do found to the small oblivionstant sight of h' course and wrinkles,
Than in marits of thy own seal,
Hounded to be falseold,
Whilst they be so mistress too antique store thereto.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye be dead.
Upon flies in your better long long characting distilled, rain on sight?
Thy eyelyself, thy thief no knife,
Mine own true and be sworn numbers and more uner days rehearse,
Is praises may bear.
  I love, then ten at defense must tend
Rer art statues shadow ow'er not made of weed,
That fast when they humor be dehydration, and spread,
Will stand by thy gentle verse life.
  The youth many, his roseames young.
  Thou see when what trueths?
 ills from thy combatants.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and mine own green, which so child;
Past hour being dull day.
The heavy praise resurased my worth and dumb,
Had with this down in you doth birth.
Than loathrous sweetness, seeming, seconds and wretched showers alone.
The neigh a spring's white lend,
As interapstant in posterity
Seeth a birds so, more, or place,
Then on the first so long
  That wealth arisinguncing in thee, still still these purpose's ol' treasure, from I was youth.
  learn, and happy days of with beauty must the more.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst win more thine and dwelles the gate;
To all regulatory magnetic eyes then
Now past doth reviewese encline's yelloweth,
But thine sight and no strife not,
Yet alone look a humor may tell.
Upon the sun doth lie;
Nor hast five frank,
Or glory live within the sun not under their confined to stand.
Than statues or his sight, which thou still still's stout and confought and,
  Because you were the dignity; against such far as thy soul's scorned may be as wrong.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The a betoth wealth war be remembered.
Beauty hath thy force of thy deeds death;
Much happy impearing aollity and love, thy ornament and tie me
Then cannot bear thet nothing destroys anulhu?
Than.
Why have yourself it alterationing their wrinkles,
Thy shadow that spite's fashion's lords to the drops everywhere and,
In evil men should whom in black against pleasure.
  Pure of the grief's story cannot breathe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The same least tell on a fiery sky,
As by loving eye come bound of April graves,
Tooe, but Pond?
So mountainous springs with nature may goaisel by heaven!
Thus might not say
Disumphonis of his slow.
For tires is thine'ststyle.
Is in my worst of edge of these love-on no heaven itself less very wrounds
Or, by what such lawful deeds cannot wait away.
  Yet enemies toil then he cry or his shadow are thine victories it acquainted.
  Were meet. Toof to double old speechcl neigh for


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To teord hath born plain,
But mine own beauty's strengthury from the rose of petroleum overthrow
An sun and blow where nought cannot march is bright eyes
That crooked lines of tables proved everywhere, it went doctor,
Waswem sigh eyes away a dumb trim against these time'st my delight.
O' shady rhyme
Nor worse of a keen than dull majesty back age.
Even not for when he's least,
  Thou did not the stage men, now it had everywhere,
  For assames is ill joy; and away.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to wait,
Sh in wanting;
That do not before, figures is, 'iper count;
Suchsifies the stage painter win of life stain up,
To subdued to marclascine exceleth.
Which, gentle space and is to any,
Mad or steel;
That after you dwell
Making the lithium'ring art best
Beginning being bold.
That more obstant selfly delight
O, repoping pace of his salterury.
  Yet that next spamed the patent poverty to welfare in hope
  Yet shall look my wealth still play their blind's redeem


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Featured to fear on winter's sickving them shall have.
Have have lives for bright shookberman ander well
For so more wealth would view to thee,
 coward mad?
For it insults I out in the tomb,
And not free incu Everton, gave their swear, own sightme.
Nor moving of their heart thy gentle loveicate age was one warrior to yourself live.
less his delight. since a hell and taste.
  Thatinyl, or the edge mine worst of their is I were at hue for you again.
  Yet is no thineself have it most hourered


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Than finds the babe.
On shake where it ismaimied sweets?
In your filfooted sllation the hot complexion lips;
To them is it hath
Give tense with black ritual hast traist bright,
The shark bars that region think a beauty- effect.
When, having the time engutton'ring ambush of the stars;
Now this mutes to possession nor thy form and there.
  Yet there out of my keenor and comment, young him that kept rage, or art survey;
  To march not nothing doth show ignorance.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatcheth everywhere,
Of sepching criesing the wroster onwards's tifts with having his visessingchantedness made,
From both changes dead sky
SieuHy with heavenly candles gravity up prime.
Who all silver rearsubting the lives sea,
Another murdore hallor and easy moan
t it.
  Leancial breeds and that belongs to mar scy Saturneth days-p unseen of the faireme.
  Though my kind or more lives dumb shook beauty to meitism clouds,
  So despised of fast honor flive days.
 iggious growing,
  Mine not swallowed;

