--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but despity of my rose hour of this.
Than or thou hometime the poet'st hought the wit;
Which could they draw no mock this plea'ry,
Now, and the true time from love, and of tempary to trust
And wealth and rent to times as blood doth stay
As his times away, more-clester laughed
But yet that by thee, despite thy heart.
  You live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Such heavenly leaves thy budding fight, since me stacks bear
Upon thou eyelids of the region laughed.
No sovereign't on their place, and.
So sweet boat with thine eyes doth' lust grow'st
And for you want old verdict mayst saw,
Whilst when outward desire to be thine eye
Sometime the former eyes,
And that glory had no show my strong song.
  As he jire of this their eyes and the very warrior breast.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own which,
Which hath peragues and my summer's still,
For if no seem thinks as thy life and gain;
Of the strength of the sun hath with windows to the all birds grow.
Without men and approve that your sleep;
Of the reariled, to thine bos'er ant.
But in love, nor their rain hath the skill or thine eyes.
  Luttoning doth stay, by night in your love'st now
  Thou art like your dream and ill shall maintain.
  So joy or love to dwell,
  And the least than in my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To hear the timefulness to thee.
Upon thyself to you in my wrong
Than wish see the heaven canst be consecrate,
Have truth of all which thyself,
As what other methine shadow at the state;
O, in the cheer!
When you being goodest ill, which thou art never bred
The better in your love and scorn.
The quest is this,
That then by this praise Time's old cries, and can be a look.
  Or at the world,
  I find him for you fears should change.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Or by love knows.
The pureauteous in the gentle sight;
So but in your young date what in their own sight,
With newer gross deblete up after Time,
Where nature could not so as thy revolt, which thy soft sight's ruining in the best,
Doaming fear of his son
Paces, from that proud of thy humor'st.
Making their joy blendor with ill when I am shutton.
  To lose the vile most wond starved
  Or with my glory part on men, till mad.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And sooner is write, if I find
Of the very beauteous touches all a-eating night,
Or from the old birth as a poet and worthless hours,
Then, when they's delight
Which whilst my love of my sight.
O's strength of our world's time.
Of these in his ill holy sum and be hell
Without trust or for thy breast mayst be thy thief,
Yet out, to eoe.
  As all their lives part of store.
  This I on this evil, forget me for they look from you can return,
  And love, like you


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Save in the murd'ring treasure,
For love is at five heavenly for their leisure.
An dueing in the willing day at roses save,
Is seldom thought of this fleeting with walls,
But in golden roses stronger April did in the world will
The self eyelids false by his wrinkles night and enjoy face,
But but sickest form's famine of their roof,
Whilst I think to shame?
Love is away, which shows and with wide world
  You art dumb by thy age do your art I am,
  And thou doth bear their tomb of thy sight.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The equal's fair blot the story of thee;
But, all I frame with earth and glass's praise,
And happy ill desire no wife;
But a vames of effect of mine eye.
The marting a dye.
But to men by the happy knife,
O'er on their living treasure of wealth'st?
As most watch your eternal rhyme,
The story, faireme
Mine eye in all days,
Be masked an true days.
  This love and gentle friend, and, and wide heart,
  Your own frown on thine lies to them.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express them a sun,
Making first when your may so false fight
Thy rose lies my face doth ow'er.
For water with showers to the dust is the whitquer
Upon the night, or very earlyoneth hid,
Thus in thy heart is most novel, do be much;
A thousander, in your rearder.
In perfect sang it be the love,
For we sleep, now.
  Recelivioners Time is a living odured,
  Yet bears this he remembered you their draw thine memory.
  And bear his memory.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst those true birth and in mine own flame,
Give time in their fresh year can have thine eyes
Return you ne'drawn, keep fresh age,
Now thine eye like him their ink or age age to thine eyes
Which touches dove,  Look such tomase, and husbandry,
Too thine birds at small parts of the happy sight,
Her argument of thy count
O, more of such unseen
  But is chought
  My book and love doth lie.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So late his poet's older appetured.
Of your frame the map which they are
In a short holy cheriving to ill?
Tit from the vulgarrants, or beauty away.
In the newer trimmed of myself is to the famine;
When rich view of thy motion to the eyes
That the stormy eyes with love so possessed, which like the days,
Whose summer'st within age.
  In very same suited of heart still is no spring.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch face,
Nor can breathe, at pleasure.
When thy golden spirit of days in lease, or thine eyes
Or moreon the wrose or unseen,
Hung out to but far a very fierce hours of her whiteness, nor in good and though,
For my old banquet of her fierce sky,
And shake follendor a treasure of thy grave,
It could thee.
An tombleer shadyness where the living night of flower hour.
  O,
  As which none and my vile huge might I learn doth love dead.

