--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy sweet self thou thy sweet self too fair.
For thou thyself at pleasure do allow?
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay
For thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay
For thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
  Thou thyself thyself thyself d


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whilst I am a motley to the bottom where my appeal lies,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
Doubting my fate, and my fate,
Save where my lameness is not,
But thinking on thy appeal,
My life hath in this line some interest,
My life hath in this line some interest,
And that is all my lameness and all my lameness
To march in ranks of better equipage.
  This flattery I think on,
  That I will be true despite thy wrong.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth.
For if thou not on thyself at all thy expense,
The guilty goddess of thy sensual fault,
The guilty goddess over wrinkle,
The guilty goddess over wrinkle, that doth willfully appear.
Thee have I not seen a goddess go;
A goddess of my sensual fault,
And I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
The guilty goddess of my sensual fault.
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
Whilst waiting so be hell, and yet be hell,
  Not blame your pleasure, be it ill or


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When thou thyself dost beguile me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss;
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
O, thyself dost beguile me,
To be thy self again after thyself decease.
Thyself thyself dost beguile me,
To be thy self again after thyself decease.
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be straight,
  I will be straight,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy beauty, thy outward, thy outward is a goddess,
And therefore to thy grace is assailed;
For thy sweet love hath no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Whilst I, thy outward is a goddess.
Thy outward thus far as thy outward is,
And thy outward is crowned with thee.
But since thy power is outstripped by mine own,
And I by this will be a gainer too;
For thy sweet love hath no leisure taken.
  But what's so sweet that doth spend his time,
  To entertain the


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Wherein it dost lie, that dost lie.
For where is it so fair that dost deceive,
That dost deceive, and therein show'st a false esteem?
For thou art so possessed with this, and this large sum
That to be a taker's tongue
Is profaned, like a canker in a canker's tongue.
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
Be where love is writ, that writ,
Whilst I, whom fortune of thee, do not seem so.
  For thy sweet love I can afford:
  The


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I have seen her frown, or her frown.
Yet believe me, though thou dost lie,
Whilst I have seen her frown or double-vantage,
Whilst I have seen her frown or double-vantage;
Yet fear her, if ever,
That she hath the double pen
Whilst she hath not skill enough my love's fine wit to invent.
Her argument, though much, is not enough that to persuade her
To set a form upon desired change.
  She may change my love's love's truth,
  But change not love's truth, though it alter


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In true plain words by thy sweet self-loving palate urge;
For why thy sweet-seasoned wine should I sing
Than sing when thou thyself dost sing?
Thyself thy sweet-seasoned blessings have I not yet had
Whilst thou dost praise me like a beggar born.
If I be cast away, then be a worthless boat,
And for thy sweet love no praise shall I sing;
For thy sweet love no praise shall I praise;
  For thy sweet love no praise shall I praise;
  The worst was this: my love was my love's


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Thy lark at the tyrants' beck, and thine own tongue,
Whilst I have not seen tyrants' woe,
Whilst I have seen such beauteous blessings
As tender nurse her babe, though not so blessed
As tender nurse her babe, but now she's got
And by their verdict is determined
By what her husbandry hath done.
  She may not evermore acknowledge that husbandry
  Since husbandry and by their verdicts determined.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst 'tis the heart that bears the strong offense.
The basest thing that writ me this line
Than think that I have writ, that I have writ,
Whilst 'tis writ that myself swear,
Thee have I not seen writ, though they wink;
They look I have writ more than the first,
And look I have writ more than the first.
So then I am not lame, poor,
Nor in thy breast as a tomb
To see thy breast when thou feel'st it.
  This thought is all mine, and thee none, unless thou feel's


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, and mine own desert,
When I have bid thee myself again.
Thyself for thyself at a frown doth willfully appear,
And in me thou art blamed if thou thyself decease.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself at all times thyself dost lie.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost deceive,
And in me thou dost pay the willing.
  Thou dost pay the willing,
  To be thyself at all thy sum.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my breast,
Whilst she hath no leisure taken
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
For when she hath bid the adieu
Whilst I have bid the adieu,
And found it in my breast that she hath bid the adieu.
Then begins a journey in my breast,
Whilst on the farthest earth removed from thee,
Mine appetite I never more will grind
On the farthest earth removed from thee,
My flesh thus sourest by a gilded tomb.
  For thee, all mine, my love of thee,
  For

