--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom they view with disdain,
Reserve their right to be
In their deep-sunken eyes, and they with manners view
The basest stain on my cheek,
Which they view with more than disdain,
Thy love's worst sin, that they view with more
Than those eyes that view with more than disdain,
Who, to the deepest level of their hatred,
Are themselves so sourest they like to drink
That, to the deepest level of their hate,
They will be their hell and their praise;
  For they see, and in their deepest


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or worse abused with worse abuse to win
A sweet ransom from my heart,
Which in the wrackful wrackful wrackful siege
Sinks up to death, in disgrace with shame,
And in joy doth die,
And in joy doth my heart's content,
And then doth my sorrow beguile cry
And drown my joy in the sea.
So, for my sake, I am not cruel,
Nor cruel enough to win,
Nor so much with joy nor with loss.
  Yet, like a hungry beast, I will be,
  And by


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will steal my treasure and use it for my pleasure.
So far from home, now I am gone,
Nor from thy sight, nor from your sight,
Nor from your sight's unseen face,
Nor from your sight's unseen sight's unseen face's unseen sight.
Yet this I have not seen, nor heard from your sight,
Nor from your sight's unseen sight's unseen sight's unseen sight.
  This silence I have felt, that he is,
  For he is but the son of mine,
  And he is but the child of yours.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy glass will be glass, and thine eyes more bright,
Thy dial will be thy glass, and thy glass's worth far greater.
That desire is so great that it cannot be won,
Or at the least despised that it is;
So that, having thy glass broken,
I will be the first to see thy face,
And the second to see thee frown,
Making a second acquaintance, I will be thy friend.
Thy dial will be thy glass, and thy glass's worth far greater.
  Thou gav'st not the world away, yet I in thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy gift, thy gift of love, is enough
To give heaven's seal to this poor beast,
Whose bark is thy blind will,
And, 'gainst thyself out of thy sightless kingdom?
Thy gift is enough that heaven's gate
To bear this cross with thy blind will,
So that thou mayst from thy sight see,
Be as thy hungry eye and give heaven's gate
Thy hungry eyes thy right, and thy blind will be glad
To see this blessed gift from thy sightless kingdom.
  Thy hungry eyes, thy blind will be glad when this


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, in their amazeth, they look upon that which doth excel.
For if they see thou art true,
They know not that thou art, nor they that believe thou art.
They know that thou art, and that thou art true.
They know that thou art, and that thou art true.
They know that thou art, and that thou art,
And they that believe that thou art, and that thou art.
They know that thou art, and that thou art, and they that believe that thou art.
They know that thou art, and they that believe that thou art.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath no more to sing, no more to praise,
Nor more to my praise than her husband's song.
Yet when her husband calls her name,
The beauty of his song
Is so great that he thinks it must be
That his love to hear her speak,
He thinks it shall be his song,
And in it is distilled all his love's delight.
He thinks it shall be his song,
And in it all his joy lives.
  For him no song hath his joy
  Where he thinks it shall be.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that my speaking breast
Thy lovely song may sing,
And then of thy song I drown
The dull thine eye that doth rehearse
For what is in my breast, thou mine?
O, be of the ear that hears my song,
Whose wide speaking part doth rehearse,
And what shall be the silence?
Sing to the ear that hears my song,
Sing to the ear that hears my speaking breast,
Sing to the ear that hears my speaking breast,
And that by this mayst thou survive
  As long as thou live mine.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such unhappily as mine
Can sing to the ear that doth lend
Thy sweet argument a kind of lasciviousness.
Thence comes it that I hear the bell ring,
And then, in a dream, I see
The sun set, and Mars his old face
On the map of the dead.
Thence comes it that I see the wights of the world
Haply weigh up the situation and say
"This is not enough, that thou mayst prove none."
  Then, be of the day, and day by night,
  Then be of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee is their delight.
For what they seek, what they seek, is but their own;
And in thee this their love is expressed.
For what they seek, what they seek, is but their own;
And in thee this their love is expressed.
For what they seek, what they seek, is but their own;
And in thee this their love is expressed.
  Then thou, my love, that they esteem,
  Unlooked on in me, that they look on thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I in thy state may compare,
And that thou in mine own state may be deemed
Thy own sweet love to mine own state,
And that in thy state dost lie.
O, but with mine own state dost thou,
That thou in mine own state dost lie,
And that in mine own state dost lie,
And that in mine own state dost lie,
And that in thy state dost lie,
And that in mine own state dost lie,
And that in mine own state dost lie,
  And that in mine state dost lie


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
She wanders, but not quite, and her wand is not quite
To the sweet ambush of the day,
For where is she that wanders,
Doth she lend the ambush,
Or the distraction of the night,
Making her a distraction for the day?
No, no, she wanders, but not quite, nor quite,
Her wand is enough to keep you awake,
And her wand is all too short,
For she can so much keep you from her sight.
  She wanders but not quite, and you in her do catch,
  And she wanders

