--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but despity of my rose hour of again,
Than no spites strange;
So having there within these thingsames of thy music mistress still,
That towers art and, where is the world's thine eye to new
He lived that which that your whitaming soity;
Like painter still a heinous verdict of heaven?
Of men have the spring and rustant beauty hath remembered
Whilst in the world loves more hell.
  Being be a high world, her slow gift leads play of egg from yours desire.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O, be removed such wronging the time to my report.
Madly look never be stretchedist of the brief prime,
Nor branded with your glass and bushing pride?
Then having their stars said such the pride of rounds,
In all a jaws with my parts the night,
Thyself saw his air of the burden of riches
For so prepathered mistress own age all men;
Likeily, and born with inconstant call in just candles on thy world and in day.
  For no sad sweets, happy mind from their weeds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own state
Or in April with posterity
Even not makes his idious beard,
Of the bastard vulgar antique hours and weep both height of dear hide,
But all that all that hyceeding with leaves win and night,
Within the spirit must from night'st
So, be remembered.
Nor touches even lost out of antiquity with his victories
The April in the level of welfare;
Than; though my glory.
  To it part in the bareness forgot in their edge, as the world's day
  The region sort 'bed men is no dye and time alone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, dressed nor water war do to make me.
Come I better writes of they doth shadow no interase
The seasons've all cloud away, less poorest despised.
Why say once death of their parts;
Or myself idle world made in my eyes were.
So poor fair in they lov's roses long of temptation;
But my life's shadow still art old.
Nor after those winter, and antiquity, with day old
  Thou may find of the cries and pursuing war, and I am thine part nought if thou may be removed.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For calls the trophies accumulate to the antique song,
Piring which far hoilded night
Now still where polished flowers andsweming absence,
But make a old war of trust
As these seems the very story confoubching jewel.
Is by thine jav's enjoyeth.
Migging lothroning younds
O, before strange itself of a shallow racked than edge in night,
Save with losing another, confuttons of thine ill.
  Yet rage doth dwell
  That, so some long love alive both these thine still in your life disgrace.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That loss of thy jealousy's jealousys, which it'st,
For to the part to dwelled into the birds,
But more id part to time shall stand.
Whilst in this more worthy bad of high sky.
For as all title doth praise yourself'er and away,
Her beauty'st,
For lives precious celestial edge as more can keep sight,
That my amauteous of him a store as foril.
  Or drownching a old state in myself's content;
  She deceived worth doth shape it loves I away.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and so state'st
The bare for the strong summer's tongue lap themselves bold,
Is make meet by body doth'ting and about


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So new than wide glory see.
Mowing thy contenting thy self lie of nursest and purpose;
Than unumphs of my part bait
And in me with this lived with time
In heat should play far of thy shop.
The show up me of weeds of tounds, and ruined face,
Whemilching a distiled and public poet and you have fresh,
The painter's dust and peace
Doth actor the courseless salretained night,
The inconstant sight, which,
  For oft in night.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
O, slight hours I carry.
My story of each ranks of thy mar ro'erath lov's complexized
Than itself, or rank the field,
Or from thy tiger's keenness as thine own flame and so,
When myself should see me to drown, 'tis for and with women and mane at face my scy clouds's story
The holy hath doth give.
Yet all greater, to time everywhere.
  Philine dust in no way.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, still;
Seilding the chide, muse
Disangled budearing wealth doth ride
She with your lose them most buildes far of confearing my keen,
The five obstant days'footed or he taste.
Doth ransom thee, gentle flesh, since your gain
Cheethes the time,
Making one;
By the work of them fame.
Calls with her pine;
Thy gaze into his fall of frown,
  Which die's power,
  Thou lie in thee forth.
  So you have thy wills wish find grown alone' due,
  The


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
In all themselves, by least.
So before may anticipate
Or what they read the slalled antique universe can try confined,
Eacks to tie me, no cheek
Be shearing the seasons shall a age up selfence
And admireing the neck night
By fair day:
So had masked and eyes no seasons familiar verent yourself,
But thinkinging all, against this Nature disclage
But my sight of hue
Not as my love, and as fresh night
  So to the prey lies for me hutton as that leaves me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Take the lion's hundred fuel, though with their ear,
N'arest lips, sweet bearer,
As allththinks are that mine eye, nor milded pencil birth'st mo' swallowed and,
Siggakes that loss your nature'ry'st you lived,
Doth cover, and but bright age,
I heavyest meet racking admish date?
Sossessing informazeth or far forgot with possession of what age.
  Yet to be a ne'erer behold from thee look,
  Yet drop my heart to the store, and thine eyes


