--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thyself thy sweet self too thy advocate.
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That I in thy rose is allayed,
And thou dost pay it thee again.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay the rent,
For thy sweet love dost beguile me,
Whilst thou dost beguile me, to be contented if thou dost pay it thee.
Thyself dost beguile me, thyself dost beguile me.
  But then thou gav'st me thyself dost pay.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my sightseeing
To find out shames and praises of your fame.
For if it were, my love would be straight,
Whilst I, my most high deserts,
And by and by by clean starved for a look,
Save where I am not, or at all,
Save where I am, though my appeal says I am strong
And like a sad slave, wilt, wilt, wilt, wilt, wilt,
Save where I am, though my appeal says I am strong.
  Thus far I have writ, and yet have not seen a


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not free.
For if thou, thyself dost pay it thee again,
For if thou, thyself dost pay it thee again,
For if thou, thyself dost pay it thee again.
Thyself thyself thyself dost pay it thee.
For if thou, thyself dost pay it thee;
Then pay it thee again, if thou wilt pay it thee.
Be not paid for thee, thyself at all thy sum;
If thou wilt be, thyself dost pay it thee.
  Yet pay it thee again, if thou w


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And given thyself all my grace.
Thy merit hath thy right, and I straight do vow,
Whilst I, thy advocate, have all the wilties,
And I, thy advocate, too;
For if thou wilt, I be obsequious,
Thy merit hath not the right, and I straight vow,
To be a tattered and worthless boat, which I will be.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy me
  That I will be true despite thy worst.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Thine own self thou thy own self thou own self dost pay.
For thy sweet love, thy sweet self thou dost pay
The willing patient, thy sweet self dost pay it thee.
O, then, thyself dost beguile me
To be diseased ere that thyself dost beguile.
Be not self-willed, be it ill or well-willed,
For I love thee so be that I do vow:
  Thou shouldst be thyself thyself thy advocate, and I am to


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where it dost live and die,
Whilst that this world is for my love,
And that this world is for my love,
A sad and sad world with a sad title.
O, what a happy title do I find
Happy to have thy love, happy to have!
O, what a happy title do I find!
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
  But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  Thou mayst be false, and yet be proved.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth on this flattery,
And, ah, still with this flattery I think,
Thy adverse party is in my love's control.
For then, like a sad slave, stay and think I am a freezings day
Whilst, like a sad slave, stay and think of nought
Save where she may keep, though from me she keeps.
She may detain, though not so, keep,
Save where she may not keep, though from thee.
  She may detain, though still keep,
  She keeps, and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And for that sin there is so grounded inward in my heart
That I can no praise praise to thee.
Thyself is the self that writ in thee, so grounded inward in my heart,
That I cannot praise thee, being mine, but in thy inward praise.
I have seen such self-love as thy self-loving husbandry
Whilst in thy outward form delivers me to thee.
Thyself is thy outward, and outward is kind,
And in thy deeds count all mine.
  Thou mayst print more, if thou wilt,
  The hardest knife ill used d


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou dost beguile me that thou bear the withering of my lameness
To bitter tears and sorrows of woe,
Whilst tears and tears do themselves forsake me,
And I, whom fortune of such triumph,
As I by fortune of thee do vow:
"Thyself thy great gift, thy great gift,
And I in thee do all my grief;
But thou, thyself at all ill, do none."
  But do thy worst, poor me, to spite of thee.
  If thou do not leave me, do not


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that doth plead
To 't' a different beauteous roof.
For if it be error, then I am sufficed
By paying too much rent.
For if they sleep, then they cry: "This is the time thy sweet love."
Then do thy office, and in me behold,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
  This am I to watch, though waiting so be hell,
  For thy office thou dost pay the willing.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thy sight,
Whilst thou dost bear thy state,
Whilst thou dost bear all my state,
And I by this resort find a kind of meetness
To take a new acquaintance of thy state.
Thyself away, thy state, thy state,
My state, thy state, thy charter to thy charter,
My state, thy charter to thee.
  Thou mayst be true despite thy state,
  But that is not enough that through thee dost hold me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For from this time when thou first I behold,
And for that sweet love there is but one,
And for that sweet love there is but one,
And that love there is but one,
And in a separable spite,
The one, the other as a taker
On second head she walks with me,
As a taker of a gilded cup of siren tears,
Hath put a spirit of love in my breast;
So then, churl, my love, and my love,
As a father takes delight, and his looks look
  When he takes from

