--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their burning eyes
Enjoyed the worst of the world!
Thy pale eyes, which like to the eye of the sun
Are made of glass, are but fools;
They are but niggard in their controlling
Where, by their controlling, I shall be happy;
But that shall not be my sin, nor their seeing,
My love shall not be their hatred,
Nor their seeing shall profit me,
Nor their desire to steal thee.
  Yet this is not the day when they see,
  Thy love is but their thought, and I am their


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it smells and bears out?
No, but doth it beguile me to kill,
And kills me when I do not so much like call
Come back again, much worse than before;
Was my love some dearer birth than before?
No, not yet, it is; and, like a dial hand, my heart
Lifts from his action and me to his.
So then love's strength, like a clock, no longer stops,
Heaves the sound and churl Death's ragged moan,
Doth it mock and mock and look with doth it


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will steal thy sweet esteem, to make him woe.
Now he is gone, mine is the rest;
Now the glass will be full of your love,
And you, now this, will gaze therein
Upon the living dead,
Which will be remembered with you,
Though you live in this, and he in this,
Now dead as living men now are.
  Blessed is he that in thee lies,
  Not marauding at all, nor be twain nor laughed at.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy glass is better than mine, and thou in mine own glass dost deceive;
No, mine is thine when thou mine
Or mine own saith that mine eyes 't love thee so.
Be where thou art, and mine eyes know thy humor.
Thy glass cannot give thee grace, but thine eyes love's wit;
In mine own glass doth thy glass show
How far a modern quill doth come too short.
For thy sake her sake mine eyes may see thee in thee,
Mine own eyes may see thee in thee.
Mine own eyes, thy own


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself, my sovereign, are within my soul's content;
If any form of thee shall my churl Death call,
For thy blind art forbidden me to jump,
If that thy blind heart hath no part in mine eye,
My rich soul knows what thy sweet thief did.
So should thy great desert be
To lay a form upon thy blind faith?
Thy blind love is thine and mine eye hath no part.
But thy sweet love, mine eye hath the gift of thee.
  Since thy vision hath no part in thee,
  Thy great desert is thine and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it lies buried, ere it be noted;
They see in thee the cheek a glorious babe
Who in thy shadow doth live, dost deceive,
And that from thee in thy sight
Thy beauty dost lie,
And this thy presence, thy shadow's decease
Intends upon thy sight, that thou, thy shadow,
Dost deceive them that they cannot see thee;
Thy beauty dost lie,
And this thy distraction annoy, that in thy sight
Doth deceive, and they that do see.
  This on me will be so great, that


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For my love lies, that I in love am false.
Now, then, welcome, next my love is;
Happy were, next my love no longer happy.
Now then, welcome, happy were,
Like, being put in your lap,
That her moan may not drown
The guilty pleasure that from above thou dost be.
Now she drowns the sorrow of mine,
And her moan shows that she is not wakened
From the night and day by night's ragged hand.
  So then her mournful tears, which I now view happy,
  Were not enough


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Mark what is to be and what is not;
Look what is forbidden me, that to thy rude joy.
Nor compare the punishments that have I been
With thy bad report, though my lascivious appetite be;
Mark what is most, most forbidden me;
But if the contrary be true, believe me, have patience,
Have patience's effect and speed the boat's progress;
Mark what is most, and most loved, yet in the least;
Mark what is most, and most hated in the least.
  For thee my love is mine, and my hate is the measure of


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
Thy keen eyes are as keen at my purpose to sing.
Be thou the tenth muse, ten times more full
Than all the perfumed perfumes of the sea,
Ten times more bright than the sun, ten times more red,
Ten times more strongly in the spring; yet by thine is my argument
A liquid prisoner put in a glass case.
Yet being asked by thine why,
That is my argument all frailt'ry and clearer,
And 'twixt good and evil striving on;
  For thee, and for my sake in general,
  The sooner


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The humble doth believe. The more I consider the more extreme,
The less true it is that thou in mine eyes
Enjoys thy largess.
O, how much more blessed would that be
If I not with thee would change my day,
When on thine eye I behold
The shames and disgraces which the world hath brought
To this inconstant time, where no joy lies?
  The shames that I see are those which the world cannot approve
  And what we see in thee is far worse than that in thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If with mine own being distilled, for mine own sake thine own gravity
Beated by thy lover's cruel eyes,
Which by their gross gross abuses be taken
From thy blood-smeared lover's shop, be it not made worse
By those shop owners whose spoils of passion
Are made of cheap tanned eisel or saucy roofing.
How many lambs do I see,
That in their gross state of love do I taste,
  Unprepared for that which with their age
  Loses, for that loss which with them cannot pay.
  So


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
By the fierce jaws of the loathsome night,
Shifts in, and slumbers; and with his quick action his quickness shaken
The boy's jaws are out, and he is mended;
He gains possession of the morn,
And the dull thralls of the dun
Reserve his strength by thrashing his heavy bars.
But then a joy ensconce
Harsh, bloody, and wretched kills
And everywhere that looks strange.
  Sings the story of her, which I love dearly;
  For true love cannot be bereft,
  Where loss is found

