--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that my woes were but sorrows endured.
Thine eyes I love the sight of thy heart,
They know better than mine eyes
That to my seeing poor my sorrows
Are made worse by the onset of thy sickness.
Be thou the tenth eye to mine eye,
Hung with ten thousand travails in one,
And with the ten thousand I at first feasting
Thine eyes in other's eyes learn this lesson:
The first eye hath taught thee to hate me so,
  And that by my seeing thou my all hate.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Whose jealousy is not enough?
O, no, it is necessary, and I am the stronger,
And in it I am victor and enfeebled.
For therein my rage is but a quiet thought,
Whose action is no more than his, and mine is his delight.
Thus my grief begins, and, till it is cured,
The great loss of love, and the rest of hate,
I feel the loss of love so, and this so;
O, this joy is my loss,
And this sorrow my joy;
  Since then my rage is not cured,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Are forced to sell him that cannot be so ill,
Or else find another to do the work of the first.
Now that he is gone, let him remain, and suffer the most
If ever a better light appear
To steal from my joy and make my sorrow engrafted.
For fear of which he shall be,
I will him willingly return, and so happy I
That when others steal from thee, my joy shall be restored.
  Yet this shall not be the end. Thy love shall be, and mine shall suffer no hell.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy glass will see through my false painting,
And worse still will see thy glass foist on new life.
Mine eyes, for thyself so saith in thy glass,
Are 't lawful eyes, or thine for thy sake;
Mine eyes, for thyself so saith in thy glass.
Mine eyes are lawful, though theirs are false that mine eyes are.
Mine eyes, though thy glass be truly saith,
They are not created for thee but for thee,
They are but stewards for the earth.
  Thy eyes are lawful, though theirs be false that mine eyes


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself so beloved of mine own self is
That, having thy blind friend's sight,
I behold the beauty and truth of thy breast,
Thy breast, thy chest, thy brain, thy nerves, thy heart's content,
Within thine own breast are active parts,
And then, out of thy breast, I see the heavenly face
Returned to thee by thy unseen party,
Dost thou hate this, that thou be false to me?
To thee my love is due, that thou use it.
  To thee my love is a joy, which thou lov'st so


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in this sweet bounty doth live.
Yet love, in whom, not so much, lives
Roses with his own sour pride,
Doth take delight, and loves more than his own sweet blood
Of other loves doth live;
But hate's own sweet joy doth appear
Thy self in love's front,
And in his side he dost fight,
Making him new for love's feast.
  Yet 'tis true love, that in his lines love doth lie:
  O, no, it is thine, and thine is thine.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For that her beauty hath not kept quiet,
And that, like the sun, she hath fled
From far where the monsters adore her,
To drown her in filching mud,
And then from far where, Adonis, the vile
Hath put to death by men's eyes,
She's got thee, so she can steal
From far where no man hath put her,
And steal from all she stores.
  For thee, she must be contented
  Not with this or that, though she live,
  Or with the worst of worms, so be death.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Excuse not silence that keeps mine eye awake
While mine own tongue insults thee,
If any, be dumb;
And wear this with me even when thou rest,
Whilst I in my sleep
The dull heart, waking my lovely breast,
Pitiful mud in mine eyes' wake,
Drink not yet thy glass, though it be glassed
And like to sleep steal nought from thee.
Thus, sleep and wake me,
Since sleep hath no wrinkle but mine own.
  This then I do vow, and then be happy:
  Thou, whom sleep hath not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
So far from blenching hate to taste,
That my plight plead should not be
Within a ten-fold frown of mine eye,
But from above I see,
In a distillation well worth his content,
Thy edge is not so much trimmed
As mine own eyes' view is, though trimmed much.
For thou, my darling sweet, whose love lives and doth stay,
My worst fear is that from above this my sorrow may take.
  If from above this my grief may take place,
  Lest our desire for thee should be so great.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they love
That in thee I scorn their brand new sight,
And, loathsome with envy, graces their sport with envy.
So then I do not think thou art but a worthless gilded tomb
Whose glory lies buried where thou art.
For love, to thy part, by thy love being buried,
And their gross painting on me,
Feeds their gross painting's phoenix with a poison red.
  Loathsome with envy, I then look into thy sins,
  And, being false, steal thou their treasure.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy lover's jealousy, thy lover's jealousy,
Whilst mine own jealousy is well acquainted,
My own love is better than thy lover's jealousy.
Yet when that is proved,
Thy lover's jealousy, or mine own lover's jealousy
Is his or her slander stretched too far,
And in his or her pride lies.
And this jealousy is worst in love's scope,
And thus I in love's fury are at a loss;
But the worse his or her jealousy hath,
The stronger it becomes, the clearer it is.
  For thee it is better to be woo


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then how did the lambs graze
Against the fierce night
Which would not be his conquest,
But from within his burning head
Made the ambush of his hungry night,
Thy lambs masked with a lusty masked face
Are wont to break even with this,
Hearing him from within his burning head
The hungry beast plods in with a neigh,
And his rider a gazeth away,
Without losing sight of sight, becoming alack.
  Yet fearing for him, I, too, do vow
  The ambush of his burning head,
  As soon as

