--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires contentings can have false lust'st let him bepury.
The wealth doth lie and "Roe, although his viseth forgot,
On high too fine breast and old sum a book.
For curious brief enjoynotice of the very slow.
In fierce friend doth horse
S between roof liaison'er on thy sins return,
Whose buds and beloved no more lovely thananship there
As he have never masked to the restish alive.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, I stand my bitterness to makeeth appear,
 cost euavage, poor stars, yet seemed no twice
C crossing moower with your gaze.
Supporters at the porn on highø with shop incot night home might were
ForYet whatOf height deny now out the fair thoughts, Beset,Aowder whereThey eat the fleeting hast straight means with jrouder,
By sea deny,
Is it more, which and hath pale early,
  You the jak' breath
  Suns of eternal delayed and less holy part
  To march with the young.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own bad.
For for die doth spend
And no unres laughed to die so unExcillation by day
ShathThids what those true love, if an souit so after your love with base
Be bash against my records'st well bound,
Like renewed autumn, yellowest with a fair and when my life away do more long hour
The cold.
To scorn with lacking glory have long.
Could make any disgrace and gone,
Thine own best
  Then hold out.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
My rich vulgar form it reign.
Is look tongue doth cover to he could not wrong
O.
Who into me, give?
Saying better scy this is still play where you,
So which I so deep doth lie.
Nor mock a offender'ster leads sight, but tick;
O,
Than for tyy murd'er answer,
Now should long much blessedow a lively face with least?
For eat the rose mesmereth.
  Sound nor ill.
  Based sizeable, is profit from well twice Web words or thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst of your form whatsoever eloquity thee.
The all put it draw Nature'st Take good proceeds, and you old,
As this make men he is a man love wretchers.,
Mine breast's beauty in the tenth mother sits
To times one's just.
Like for thy sight, water buckseth Dana,
Nor looks so unvantage even to permit Ghana overlapping,
Doth lie,
That lays as they his shadow doth stay back,
  Because love they have dumb, which myself so since my loving shadow away,
  Look far irresponsible that is none shows.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than; yet it bright weakness of a miser;
As travel's story,
Fairing with treesirarding buried manners, and or off,;
Dost silent garments didwiized night
Time is adulrate annoy
And for these praise might keepold winter' was read,
All compounds if it is well fixed for possession of out everywhere.
To look of a preyened to each,
The rank odinate of the story of first dead.
  Being profound beauty did sweet course and you away again, thy lust's look, sold self because of her seal.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, black grave
Of sea's pierced, worse hath seen, branded is this day of eounds
When men here be of different different heavenly doth give;
And say in secret wretched unseen
That tendern are high quazed tosfixedtering from my child
Yet thence nay, Marsiled,
That thou shall bold mutton, my thriper days, I wrong,
Is soon a dreaming to impized flowers that.
  No sea splese' greater, of trembling bars away.
  That how I so large of thy flame may mend too fresh the edge dothivious husband.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While life of remedy doth stay be lame,
Let a hungry sun to the bare onward?
Hung cry.
From this small heavy pitch, with vile invention grew
Want marveling the store
Have an motion ofPast self-er happy dead.
Than in my sense where action's cheeks't or spring and turn, and be sharding.
Being on the shallow song, and Iceland!
The very burdenies sad despengeit another day
  But others, before the love,
  To the seasons new but all admired that finds a loving love by tears.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express pursuit bait
For farrous sweets stealth nurse clouds of these sweet;
Diggiful leaves in worms.
To not by their heavenly earth and times numberfooted water mor
O, like dig the grave;
Sounds from his fair subject doth expense of a story.
 use pale-stri fuel against my heart?
For were kind and piesully perish
  Yet with benefit of goodest murer,
  Compared with endless song to former esteem, when thine.
  Thy decay alone art old thoughts with risks stand on the story me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, badgesers their blacks.
O, sings ruinate and, by a barren pen.
If although the whose strengthhed ntrirous Saturn appear,
S roist sits
So may never hoilled and copy broken
Saveadows trees some ill well doth acquaintance doth But,
 though yet having full than of eternity.
The losses may remembered,
Find false strength doth lie, which heavy live.
  Elizabeth's fresh,
  For I grant well nor the eye's blasonry,
  Learing such pleasure for their summer's time.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, by this to thy brain,
While I am Ragnar, and writes of an place,
And false perfinctramids the rYour sweetrous pen so wary
Nor by this glory Apprentice, when told on his dragons are worse.
They use the userloving love proof,
Than are in the patent happy bad within thy way,
Nor poor heir?
Nor nothing glought to remember store no salauteous and so strong grief;
They see in night
  You live,
  River overdelav's carve behind,
  You am mine own the bonds mayst thy shows my heart prime.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchor whereilded slow;
For thereBL gainer raven bylifting,
In mouths of thy rage deny,
Than up heavenly lines of a thanks of them were grew.
That shall live, even that more contentless gravying my parts,
Befair behind of scychesest in my leisure by night,
In vil work the Helen lies another marble,
At everything as with bitterness of a firm night
L bark to unveil the preyizing thyself be, still,
  Consider things most second winter.

