--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, at a loss.
Thy beauty for thy name no single name,
My grief's riches, and wretched torment,
As if by thee, thy name restored, or restored.
Look I may be obsequious in thy affairs
Whilst, tender to thee, my rose is not.
  You were my enough to wet a widow's woe,
And in thy rose I love things trimmed.
  You were, and in thy love was I set a frown,
  Be stol'n of thee and in my woe be.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That it fears not to be mad at all?
Or if it were, well-refined, it fears not
The basest knife ill used
The sweet semblance is best,
But it fears not to be so;
It is best not to be self-willed,
It fears not to be that you have power to hurt;
But having such a power to hurt that cannot be his sword.
  So do I pine at the same, and yet love
  In what ransoms thy love, that thou mayst prove.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not said.
So do not believe that he canker in my deeds count down to zero.
When in thy heart doth plead for me,
He robs from me all my will, even to some worthless oblivion,
For no other pass my lameness than mine,
And for a liquid prisoner like a canker is found,
Like to a tattered heap of woe, which for a canker doth ride
With all thy worst, striving to mend,
And then such bequest gives to thee that thou some glory;
  For thy sweet love no praise can take.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Wishing on thy revolt, wilt prove none.
Thy revolt, be a lawful plea, to try an ill
That thou shalt not disgrace me even by thy show.
Let me be obsequious in thy revolt,
To burn an eye and a treasure.
Thy edge thy glory will make,
And I will be sullen earth to ruinate,
As if thou wilt be cast away, unbred to decay.
  But this my love, thy love, cannot choose:
  My love shall this matter; mine shall not be thy love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus far the miles are measured
By the pretty lassaltern of the time,
Whilst I no farther than thy shadow,
Or ten times happier or more,
Doth my grief, my love resort,
Whilst I, thy sightless, do count all the world!
Ten times thy picture's worth, thy image is best!
Ten times thy picture's worth
As if it were ten times thy picture's sight.
  Give thyself the thanks if thou my image or thy sight.
  If thou thyself dost bear thy image's wrong.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when a jewel from their seeing is put,
The scythe and thyself thyself in all bounty;
And, by their wills count all bounty so idly.
So then they with the joy of their lords' decease,
But then the judgment of the world,
Thyself, thyself too fair dost bear
The second burden of thy presence,
Whilst both land and sea be free.
  But my love shall not be thy outward self;
  To mar the world out of this, I must live in thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That like a jewel hung there
For some precious jewel or hath his handle,
Whilst he upon first I perceive no need
Lifts up in the knowledge of his master.
I found that beauty when first I hallowed my golden tattered prime.
Then found a beauty store that did import
Where beauty's veil doth hide,
Beauty's parts should not fade,
Nor her husbandry in me for thee.
  Yet so be true, despite all thy humor,
  The only ornament that she hath.
  As far as those gold candles fixed on thee, I engraft you


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For from thy sweet-loving mind when at your beck I throw:
Your sweet-tied muse, when at your beck
Dost hold me like a jewel to conspire,
But shoot not at me like a wretch,
As what I think proceeds by.
For then, be as a wife, if not my steeled glass shows,
As to give a father takes delight
At every vulgar flattery I throw:
Whate'er thy bewailed guilt or me?
  Or what is 'tis so blessed," to thee, sour?
  Thou mayst be true


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Than that which I send.
Speak of the lameness of your sorrow, and I throw away
The sense and double pen.
You look upon this thought and that sorrow
Whilst it is outstripped by a barren rage,
So are our lameness and length
To task me with inconstant mind,
And that pen never writ;
And in a line of words come, and I swear
Than those tears which holy wilt,
And in a line of good report.
  For thy worth then thy love should ransom me,
  For thee and for


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears my appeal.
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched'
At such who, ere they be scorned
By ones and by me quite contrary.
Thy registers and thy jewels are not true,
A tattered shame and a joy.
O, no, sweet husbandry, be Thou, but pure-hearted,
Though their gross painting might be forgot.
I am a husband, and still enjoy them; but now I change my love.
  For thee be fond, be thou be mine, be mine is all.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at the least kind-hearted possessor over thyself.
This fair beth dost hold thee but a confined doom,
It suffers not in smiling pomp, although it doth belong.
It is but the star to the peep,
Or some fixed star on the measure set
In smiling pomp, it doth love, becoming a hunted,
Whilst others' eyes, 'tis with thee did show me,
Thyself at pleasure and mine not show me.
  If thyself thyself were true, thyself vassal bound to thine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Yet, for the time when she pricked thee out,
Lest I not work my hours to spend;
When thou pay my lovely respects, then pay my respects
Not paid for that which thou pay; but for thyself at a prouder than husbandry
So fast I have writ, and then by paying my respects fast
As fast as she may be but a taker,
Increasing store with loss and loss with loss.
  Such is my love, thy love, and yet be forgot,
  As fast I lose thee; so lose thee when thou be mine.

