--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger, far stronger than tongue?
What's more praise may I dare:
Than unswept and churl hate's proudful hymns
Than public hymns that receive the more praise;
Yet let's mourners find out what have had before;
Yet when the hymns did give thee more praise,
They used the hymns at my expense;
  Let my hymns be obsequious,
  Theirs for thy sweet show and for their show.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I will not drop in for an ill report,
Save where no bitterness lies,
O'ercharged with burden of mine own guilt.
Most true it is that through the selfsame
But then my judgment knew no reason why I should drop
My appeal before the pryman's gate.
For there is no bitterness that I will bitter think;
For why should this tempting plea commence,
When I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
Whilst this appeal says my love was good.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may lend?
His bonds in thee are all bonds, that I bear all bonds,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee.
The bonds in thee are all my out. I love thee now, and that bond bring
Wailing guilt and sorrows o'er the very same.
But do not so. I love thee because thou do mine,
To tender render, dear dost pay it thee my all.
  To nothing do I want, then do mine, mine, mine unless thou get thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
The one by which thou dost contend.
The owner's tongue doth rehearse, and thine is but the tenth muse;
The owner's tongue doth sing, and thine own dost beguile,
And all those who dost breathe that ocean
Thanof whose content will be the store.
Let not be obsequious in thy praise,
Though to thine own spites,
And rather make me appear,
Lest those who do but shun the tongue:
  The worth of thy praise cannot be measured by thy deeds;
  The coward conquest of a


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For where are thy supposed feasts so blessed
That thou thy granting virtue, and therefore hath stol'er-tied
Hisbemoaned moan that thou bear'st me now,
Whilst thou bear'st my abysm, mine eye,
Dost bear my amiss, and mine eye doth deceive.
O, thank him that didst not so much do! But what could death do if thou send me forth
And let not die so that I do away.
  This let not be death, and weep to thee, not that I can live
  For thyself


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse
Where no form delivers his spirit to his pipe.
That water hath thee, so far from our society
On the lily's rose gardens main doth bear.
Thus far, sweet love, thy sweet love, and wretched rose
Sland'ring at a purposed overthrow;
Whilst their fears and loveliness seem,
So far from thee, be it ill or well.
  But then fear me not if thou, my saucy jade,
  Since why shouldst in thee all this ill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With what's 'tisps checked and checked only by the travail of my will.
I never saw a goddess go;
Not by the travail of the stars, though they err;
They err that this cunning wanton
To poison me with their devious smoke.
O, then believe me, that I have seen such wealth,
As she hath not seen a beggar show;
In hailst thou, my ransoms reckon,
As to prevent the beggar's hate:
  Where my love hath not the wilt to prove,
  Which not love toward


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Drink the canker's jaws
And dry besiege the foul with all kinds of praise,
Thine brain may well beiver than a flower.
Sequest over wrack, and I straight up in my verse,
With quine eyes I more blessed, be it ten times more blushing
Than niggard argument: "No, my love," that works on thee."
O, then what an argument wouldst thou prove!
O, learn to read what silent love hath writ! O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  Yet love, be dumb, learn to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou hast passed by the vulgarizing gaze on vulgar scandal
These blenches that before have mounted.
Thy offender hath stol'er-t'ring privilege than thine own?
Had stol'er than thine own market is,
To wait on thy induliment for thy sweet love hadst before;
The scythe and thee do what I love,
But in the distraction of the vulgar scandal
Thy lily I summon: O, learn to read what an older child
Ere what a gilded tomb was built up to weep.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they that pay the willing loan;
The true spirit of thy love is allayed,
Resembling strong youth in his middle age.
That appetite they will grind
Whilst they themselves forsake all alack, and all alike,
In all external grace they but in one, grow common.
Then, for thy sweet lovers I not shun all my graces
My saucy bark, which is best for my saucy bark,
Not to the lark at the wilt, bide each check
To find out shames and praises.
  Yet this may be error:


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Entitled in thy state, controlling that right.
Gainst thyself an afterloss. Be thou thy self! Now, be your content, as a widow,
So what wealth have butine state,
Whilst I have lived alone, so free
Hate'er-triumphant day of sullen night,
With sickness and limbecks after.
  If any, in me thou survive my gentle love,
  To mar the bitter warrior that bears me out.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Now the question is asked, and now the argument
As easy might I from myself depart
As from her head, which hath out wrack the work.
So now is my time, that enfeebled mine,
Whilst still all mine is for myself but one,
Save that by a confined doom my fate.
All in a very woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,

