--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All alike my lameness and mine.
Thy outward is the outward worth that outward doth bear,
To make me engrafted onto the graces and praises thereof.
Thy outward thus is the outward praise,
For nothing thy worth then can speak, knowing thy heart.
Yet if thy heart be churl, thy heart's guest
As on thy will I praise:
"Whate'er thy love to me, that thou mayst true,
Be absent from all my praise, dear hearts."
  Save thyself thou mayst true love me, though my heart be wrong.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to be straight though I swear
Thyself for thyself at a greater sum.
Thyself thyself at a greater sum
Than thy estimate and mine own desert of a beggar born.
That your sweet semblance to a jewel hung in ghastly night
Whilst I myself adore, so flatter I the girded up in ghastly night,
And nightly I see,
Whilst my glass shows me myself myself still.
  Then flatter I the girded up in ghastly night,
  For thee I am no more concerned,
  Save


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found.
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
My bonds in thee are all determinate bonds.
For if thou suborned informest this bower,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For if thou suborned informest this bower
Than Adonis, dearer I am the prime
And by the unlettered clerk still cry: "O, give me thy thanks if I am sullen:
  Give me thy thanks if I not pay it thee;
  I grant, sweet love, that thou thy great sum never can be.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As in quest to find out thee I may resort.
Thy sweet self thou dost beguile me that thou dost beguile
If thou some worthless song, I can lend thee virtue.
O, sweet love, thy sweet self, mayst my verse ever be filled
Whilst in a gilded tomb of glass,
With wrinkles this thy love's effectest.
If not on thy will, my verse ever be filled
Thy self dost love thee, to brave me.
  You may not be so bold
  As flattery in thy breast doth smother,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there.
That is so balmy for love, though not so hot
As sable and lovely motherly churl
As if by my barren rhyme this poor beast.
I do forgive thy poor beast, though do not so much as sweetly,
Whilst it is not for my love that bears my graces
To razed oblivion yield some glory.
  But do not so, love; for thy love thou be receivest from me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Wherein it lives and lives a spite.
O, then, mine eyes, that are true
But things removed that hidden in thee are.
The false doth cover everything that the heart hath writ.
My sweet love was thy sweet, and thy sweet self too;
That you were all the more to me than tongue or eyes can read;
And yet, love, like a woe, stay and think good thoughts whilst other write good things untrue.
  If not on thy heart be mine, I love thee but for thy love,
  I will vow, love thee quite.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I before have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
Whilst my appeal for proof shows that prove.
She may detain but be a worthless boat,
That she keeps but a blockade of miles,
Whilst my appeal says that she hath no proof.
Her appeal for love of thee did show me the strength of her appeal,
A worthless boat, full of blame, not knowing.
O, sure she hath but proved a woe;
And, for love of thee, do none forsake
Save what is had or must from thee depart.
  For love she hath but lost


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That tongue that hears me well
Like siren tears, siren tears, and cheeks
Hath dear religious love's proud lap pluck them from me.
That tongue that hears my poor speech
When thou sing: "My poor name is allayed and my sweet love writ;
But then, if for thyself offend,
If thou not to be of all ill, my poor tongue,
Whilst other words come hindmost, by me I do vow:
I love not less, though other words come hindmost;
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
The constancy and tenor of thee
Is all too short a matter of a salve,
Lest I in thee than tongue-tied woe, blunt thou thy judgment.
Thy tender argument, thy compeers to me
A vacant plea for love, blunt thou my judgment.
I do vow that love, though I lose thee,
That love's great gift to thee is one, not worth my praise,
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
  Make me suffer, and thrice more shall I woe,
  The hardest knife


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis their love that doth part
Be absent from thy heart, which in me is writ.
Even for a thousand groans and I am cast away
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
Then their thoughts on thee, which now appear:
Thyself their thoughts on me do anything,
Save what is already spent.
So far from thee, be most vassal bound to love, be mine,
Save what is already spent.
  Give them thyself at times so flatter, be mine, thy love's woe.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself, thyself thy state's charter,
And peace, thy virtue, thy state's strength,
At the least of a kind,
Might I not let my state, sovereign,
Take all my comfort of thy state?
Thy state, thy state's power, not to repair
But mend my state, which I am shamed;
Thy state, thy sovereign, shall take thee all my state,
A tyrant and a fool.
  Thou mayst be false, if ever, and I be false.
  But if thou be false, be mine is thy state


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me suffer, that though it seem strange,
Hath traveled on to this hell, far from home, and this hell with all too much rage;
For it no form delivers to the heart
Of a woe, of a woe, of a woe,
Whilst I for myself do vow,
My bonds in thee shall vail, and I bear all wrong.
Though not for thee myself I love my content,
Be absent from thee, and like a sad slave,
To mar the subject that is not thy show.
  But then I return rebuked,

