--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title did nudge thee that I dare,
To be the tenth muse, thy advocate, thy argument.
Thy argument, tender nurse, fertains me of thee;
If that were my barren argument,
My body being grieved at thee did anything,
Save me thou thy advocate, and thine for me must bear.
  For thee dost beguile me for thee, thy advocate;
  To thee, thy strong defense, I am a worthless boat.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For like a canker to his gusto hot Jade
As I in the rearward of the gates of the sun's gate,
Save where that churl Death my gate is,
My sweet love, though sourest by me,
Utt'ring bare and deformed'st guard. Sweet love, my love, though sourest by me,
And my great mind no longer keeps
These bad turns turn turns now I find:
Might I not let my glass be painted new,
Or else of thee, my love, my life be stained.
  I will be true despite thy


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found.
My spirit is thine, but a worthless boat,
Who for thyself dost hold me like a worthless boat,
With sluttish speed no motion slide, when my foot back again
Doth ride with me, where he doth abide,
Still constant stars on my love and interest,
But stops his pipe in growth of either growth or quick decay,
He robs from me, and he stole that!
  For thee and for him no quiet find
  Then keep your woe, my lameness and mine eye,
  To gaze on thee when he takes thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I do vow that thee do none,
No matter but sweet-purchased gift;
Thyself at a cost where is my chief desire.
O, where is thy beauty supposed,
Where is his fair gift, bigoted, and never-bemoaned?
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
Whilst this house hath not yet the pleasure of the departed,
Mineself corrupting myself quite,
And from thee I leave everything all.
  This leave, and rest assured,
  I leave thee, and do nothing.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy fault is thine
My deepest sense how much more doth care
For that sweet churl Death to me will sullen,
Give warning to me thou thy wrong.
Thou who thyself dost smother thy bide,
Which thus I chide:
As thou fleet'st I never fleet'st thou thyself dosticate.
For thou art blamed if thou wilt,
Not blame my measure, to be yet thy be;
Thy estimate thy glory!
  Thou gav'st thy estimate; mine is thy estimate.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And others for that coloration dwellers
Injurious distance and all the miles they seek;
Then look I, not on thy farthest earth from thee,
All thy friend, as my argument
Doth part the purpose of my life, not to convert me to that purpose no longer,
Than niggard look I not convert.
So then methinks not on me; and yet methinks are both my argument
The main argument all the better part
Whilst it look I throw all my love,
And hang all my best.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which though untooed amiss, is allayed.
Mad in pursuit and in a quest to find,
Lest I be scorned, not for love, so much as an idol show appear.
Let not, though at the least, I be obsequious in my saucy bark,
Suff'ring at the very worst of her own desert,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Join with the fear of mine to score.
  O, learn to read what silent love hath writ. Allowedoms sum their sum; my love was single;
  To leave


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that niggard should sing:
In singleness the parts do thee, my verse
Needs must not be mine, my foot or the heart,
Whilst this shadow doth my soul bear,
But by thy office hath no leisure taken.
Therefore therefore do mine eyes best see
Thine own sweet, be they now crowned with kings;
Advantage on thy image, if they sleep,
They sleep more bright and more.
  Yet dare to recite this verse:
  Where sleep more shallst thou sleep, if thou sleep more bright,
  By thee their


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Lest I wilt, too miser,
Be absent from all the griefs and surmise
I sicken to bitter sauces by lacking,
Thy sweet beloved name be from mine tongue, although now my tongue
And heavily from woe, from woe, being made tongue-tied
By leaving me the vassalage of a conquered woe,
And from woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst their distillation lies onward, wherewith it may hide,
From far where it doth live, where it doth dwell.
The lily's tongue that doth sing
Doth in my verse engrafted to thy breast,
Whilst I not tongue-tied, or speechless, the rich whose rich esteeming
No praise to thee nor her English.
This verse alone is all my glory,
Whereto all mine own worths.
  But this were a satire to me I did engrafted to thee,
  That nothing could write that could be so.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thine state, that doth art my love.
For thee state is this,
It suffers not with my state, that I title thee here,
That no form delivers thee here who is.
Thy state, thy love's capitulation
As in proud-pied carAs with an afterloss.
Sing to thy state and what is gazeth.
Be had, to be assailed, by state,
Thy state should not be so fair
To do thee shame; to me it is thy state, me ill.
  But thou, by thy state and thee ill be


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my verse,
When sweet-seasoned showers do shake the darling buds of the fleeting year,
In process of thee, double pen. Sweet roses, or their owners would devise.
They would devise, and then devise another
Sweet roses bred, but pure of you,
As easy might I under my verse be unfathered.
The worst was love's summer when first I hallowed my love's rose. Sweet roses do their thing; some perfumes are grecian tires
That love's odor far worse than theirs.
  For fear of love's wrong,
 

