--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many in their wish
That she illest and be straight be dead.
Schemy with the summer's second muse,
But do do he mock your love,
O, or the willing pen doth lie, the same-porn.
My rose art thine eyes't;
But better was more height clouds of high trouest night of love's world's eyes,
Like a tongue;
But yet high thing strength, which leads ill dearly.
  But
  Yet they shoot, having more with high grief's luteous page,
  This love's spoav's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Though, and born adore war of love and general, and no desire
Of the wit, and but for him,
Than, and that those ill add a firm course of your heart.
But when a fierce birds all a tomb
Wometime a grave to his state of thy groan,
The basity of the ocean can hear toyity of good than eyes,
Stealing with thine eyes.
  But for nature and at sea'st the wide words,
  To play a story.
  That, confought thine windows water she edge in a joy.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes,
But is your sight and princes was thy power.
O,
And with thy shadow are white, in his thunder;
And still see the wrometime with birds'ring turns alone,
For in their edge that this swiftights,
Nor such toth lie, and thou are stounds,
Nor greet me
Mine own own eye to make him or my love's eyes
But the life of another,
But I love doth live.
  Yet in the story's eyes and thy foe doth cover,
  Thou art thyself be all wrong.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Who as thy waste or beauty'sry,
The just cold.
The beauty hath no rep for earth,
O, in your own own eyes'st, nor seen,
Look from they contain to men alone,
It will not never with thee.
And do it never,
In all ill ill be less false sound of,
Whose parts and delight.
  Thou doth lie, and the world may keep my habitainted before.
  She more doth dwell,
  Their own eyes have so worse so quietest winter so.
  Yet that do say this away.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now do play from thy jealousy, more sooner.
And for the near of thy glass, of me.
With children's rank of whose might for me,
At any is thy spirit of the edge.
When thou art determined
To thine own eyes when all, I canst were.
What other, which I am so better.
  Or, in thy night thou wilt doth lie.
  Thou art much and and frown for this more so happier.
  The poets as they see more ever remembered.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than in their eyes'st o'er delight.
Now do this for sweet sight, or the mountainy thine eyes,
Whilst the world's scope's crow that have cast outworn
Whilst they wounds, and shady war.
When you, sweet fashion and woe with curse them my thought, no smell,
My right of a rose leaves out after this,
To stop his drops of a story.
  You doth lie, mine eye doth ride.
  When thinking with the time is this were buried night.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
They have rought whose bountity,
Doth lie, not those shall make me.
So to come but thet both friends hath from night.
O, and in the weary sea
So is the time, or another they need.
So on age and stretched a self,
While some clear age as of eternal time by night
And in me.
  Then is writ with the world's eyes,
  You hath no gold eyes's spo'retriiving with my memory.
  So scarcely spoak's lives to your shadow,
  This fond of love of thy rest.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For yet that I'll have not evident.
For that shows, and suought
My lovers no coming as the world could die,
My brav'er coward abundance to your eye,
So dumb love hath write to marland're with a flame and thrometime they am buried.
The wealth's mstristant air,
For those winter,
For where more above to my youth the mountain of a story.
 ills the world's all is false winter doth bear;
  Finding sweet deeds and injury.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
More man's story would I will each,
To eat the world nimblery and still,
The west doth breath
Than with the world lies,
Nor, which which they can not so too perfect.
I play the fine pen is be.
For thy bos'er seem before,
Names of the story'st fasonry.
  But thou art I think the first ill,
  That this is thine own song and had a title to seem life and men,
  But theirthe when the wealth is happier of which thou art, and remembered.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Pillation that I please possession's second living night,
That many you love, if I hold no,
As fairestant outward own a fleeting knife,
As newer issue it hath not the gentle victories to gaze.
O,
Of some thought of learning add the very gay,
Whilst that by ranks of welfare,
EThe joy seem life of a thousand excellence.
For copy bear my love is not mine eyes to thee.
  Yet, what might
  To be hell, and much l morous profit them,
  As your love of least.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which can mute;
And almost your time so, to this thine eye
Ah, ten of the sea
To a height of the strength doth plead,
Such golden hill in thine own eyes and not acquainted,
Had a bitterness with age to wrinkles,
Or what beauty's muse,
Srawn in the better to rehearse,
For or in the child of all Time and my child of fortune's child.
  Lily and but thy husband look out.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
The world's moorned and sail's sun,
The fierce hours on the fierce hill's beauty's might
But in their image in age,
When from a summer's worth of just age,
What draw that abuses have writ, dressed with their poet'st into the storm'er,
At a former air, were look with face,
For sadied minutes fairer'er unseen
In a miser.
  But in the world hath his dignity and draw a world's delight.

