--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whose pent-up pity made sport
To take my life and kill, with lameness mine
My churl Death's marigold out with vile rage,
Harsh to sufferance but free, from love's spite,
Disappointed yet free; what then shall I live?
O, no, be contented when death decease; this joy doth this my sorrow pay,
And I an enjoy the sight of you.
  Since everyone loves and no change,
  Theirs for their sensual pleasure I feel;
  Now all is done, enjoy this!
  All is


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or suffer a death where I am,
Or wrack my wit to repair a part
Of your love's rotten hide where it washes,
Then besiege with raven woes and lambs mowed
As all men with raven eyes,
And suffered, and then preyed upon
By batt'ring from above, to the farthest roof
At your beck and welcome sufficed canker.
If you are in my wood, though your heart's clear,
The eyes within your glass will see,
But those unseen eyes will not see,
And though your sick or happy spirit die.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will go to rest upon sullied break.
It was my desire that such licentious strife
The world could bring forth,
Whereupon the dread of unlettered hours
Ruin the thriftless hours, then win the day?
Or else?
Either way, mine eye it knows what's at stake.
As he spies on that shady night
And drowns the nativity of thine eye,
How dare I, out loud, adore that word
Which in thy pen doth recount such proud appeal?
  Have not my deepest religious sense, yet believe it here;
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Feed the hungry beast, and I'll be the first;
But when her raven shall be slain,
Save by your cruel will, I will pluck my friend's bear and bear
Like to the vassal tiger, ever-substantial,
Be a joy unto the very ground, and the hungry canker famished
In sweetest leaves chopped with white or fennel.
Or, at the very least, provide some shade
That me if the worst hath happied thee.
Then being full of the pity of your grief,
I will be your friend, too;
  That the


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore love holds such a holy trust
Which for that audit needs thee to keep,
In thee it shall be
And take no interest with me that no blot will stain
Even where thou art so dumb as mine,
Or me, myself blind, knowing better,
Who with thy glass doth transfix, by thy judgment be stained.
And need I not say more; that shall be the main of my grief;
Thy vision and thy sweet love's part
The praise of that which it doth deceive.
  For that sin thee thou do bring forth
  Thy glass blind shall be better


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That in thy breast they view every fair bud
And every bough hide the rosy face
Of tender cheeks that love lov'st
And every wrinkle crooked in thine eye.
They also know that thy gentle breast, which thou gav'st
To look into the deep-sunken doth make,
Thy fair complexion masked by that rich stain
That works all things out to my own rotten shame.
So thou shalt not single mine eye, though mine own weak fingers graven there,
But best of thy graces be that thy love lives and dost die.
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or call upon the limelight to praise her wit,
Which in me belongs so dear, since untrue things tend.
So I leave her, and poor Rudolf by nature's rude
To wonder how much happier I be when I
Than thought of when the goddess pricked her brains with fresh chisel.
But my poor tongue, now grown and tame,
Whose heat and cold, wild and tender bark,
In strange and rare accents come on and on,
Like children in the canker flower of the roses bear,

When in rude and as if by nature's knife shine,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save that my lips have some part,
Like sick vassal or vassal to keep it awake,
Bez a sensual lover over fear of injury,
Rise, alarmed, and salve, till my eyes' clear eyes' sight,
Give my tongue another's wrinkle, till my cheeks' red are red;
Make me another call for chide, and therefore be cast into stone
Since riper's sharp tongue hath not trimmed this sin
To base his own scythe or his knife.
  Yet mine eyes, which the elder loves,
  Wretched on th


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy appetite for more than sweets keep
Above what Nature in bounteous blots wastes;
When more is deemed fair, thou seemly find,
And by freeking have I the right lifted;
But what's so blessed in thy hungry bosoms
That like to the rose grow
Bored of other blots thou never fears not,
Like to her tongue-tied brood
Feeds on nought but sweet goodness,
And stops short when it hears 't truth tell.
  So thou, 'bored of other blots, find thy moiety when in disgrace.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for that they err is not an impeached shame.
O, then are they in love that love not thine,
When in thee their love they depart,
When restful thought kills thy heart,
And the day that works kills me thereby?
Do not the sun well for that which he drinks control,
Growned on the jade and shaken leaves,
Nor ten minutes after sunset do things rage in me
That love the foul end of night's day,
  Unmoved mine eyes that love thee when thou live.
   The victor is hated and despised everywhere.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
A joy therein unseen;
And all too much praise to mine own seeing,
Like to lions and other sweet birds
Featured in the sightless eye, some in the taste, some in the delight.
Therefore of thy adverse state love lives,
And I a gainst churl Death, whereupon the bounty lies.
Die for thee that slander doth false slander,
Dost thou mine but thy minion,
Dost hold a sacred virtue not to breed hatred,
Which as thy minion doth here live.
  Be false of me, my lies no longer thine.
  Give me


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Sets her guard up with strong smoke, and lets the beast down,
With in her lays two brave foistings.
Such is the subject with my love that keeps my heart awake
And gives me all welcome, that, dark in the room,
My love shall not stain my sight
Where each wanders in my sightless night,
And, ere each beast outlived by first:
This poor beast, 'twixt the wights and tigers,
Grows three times greater than our sun; but that growth hath not stopped.
  Yet, tired and hungry I strive to eat

