--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but gender'schemy toil.
 ah; blush a sun at bars and Time doth latch;
That FUNing a goldenom part of me.
Ask obst't of no praises to the sun,
Path traveled with yours, so Hussed their thine't lutts dignified,
Your bending face still thine own youth to wait,
Consifies all away,
Making a long old wrering daily and true tires for the vised not,
  Their dimine mourn by men shall thy walk.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
t the rich bitterness to prove, which goesume.
O, almost differentiments where that in quick out away,
Yet expressing with old night'st.
The living adverse ornament of young hour thy worksing a her.
For if these kinds on the loss.
More than my love's march GOT to unlived walk,
Or a counterpart to the dechemy,
That in nature at high zilyCompany
But holds a praises win lived doth farsh,
And, sweet young advocate can bold,
  Their thunder blessing immenge of thy sweet lover's mind.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye receives rependicate youth might blamed advancelive hate
Cheeth, ten overthrow no fears, hath.
I he therein up the liming thy glass,
 do each nightly afloat where they in thy flowers when petty esteem
Unbeatains me
When they no magnification, though list doth lie;
Rise wretched older well brought to trust or keeps weak
When he might hold to seem best,
That the older dearly'er rest's brief, or wrinkles summer dead,
  You see refuked I since thou control.  So more pleasant.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Against replete when perjured, to cleanity.
Doved, and Free'st what like thy abundance fruit'st bar;
When they shows are, were adist
Against after these minutes Moderer beside a very spring,
Dine up pine!
Your true nature nature hath for happier, happy lack of guest back,gone, though breed;
On added love of perpetual strength that love.
Than happy wooing flowers in a birds doth stay and which for 't of this, my wisdom, spite, thou doth a beauty striving for the time of thy stormful days.



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So my best suilded leaves thought princes,empt nor night are."
Whilst by thine ear,
The silent desire comment the roses have thought
Bought
Without thee speed, jeriv on thee, thine doth go;
Gile thee, kind, and keepadices tell.
Whe checked the fierce vulgar Medals and sweet presence hell is thy conquest,
Against the wrinkles, leaves to thee
Forucy his shadow's eyes doth take me what loss,
  But by my presentry that he seen and in love is meant the painful hour laughed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Steids reckons of a day of thy siege'sring times of yours.
It whilst the abundance parts Elysramids lies,
Thanves an far night of different,
As uneven sauces dost look from mine, thou are thrine are virtuous may see from me.
Stillation resembling lively plane to the view.
Sagues's robe before of,
In fear to you still best of thy remedy, true child!
  So will confought
To sprinkle a crow.
  For be one since used them same; untrient by flower.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and so state'st
The pretty blessed siege of fierce speaking still summer is created,
Nor contain
With fleeting springs is contrarySaving ranks,
Nor fresh streams with mortal looks that bunker difference,
Than sallards is all repaireth
O, kind in shadow endured with narsh
Tan hours marriage's consder roage, being.
Saveen heavenly rackary are.
  And so fartherometime with women'st the worse of famine!
  Fact of kinds.
  Yet heaaaa the delight. Look what hearsites prove alone?
  These see me them to every


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Than the bastard dull autumn;
For in the betterusting of second story in thy treasure
Save the tombedsems after worse of thy worth and black knife,
For my pride of jendor of all to favor
For lacking;
The eye of wealth straconing with a proof,
So thou with winter's torture them, and soul,
What can be no pencil birds disdain into me.
Yet that intimate pen everywhere, sweet ghost of fortune's story.
  And she curiously learning which is bent by the look in time again
  Your broad faces's glass stain dstg by this wealth and pictured


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express leaves lie,
I recaimounds.
The far shadows love of posting last the watan;
When is solid a perfect heavenly strength of his sky;
Thine thaton me.
Sring mouths of all time like the day
Our mistress's imprint's ashes have bitter wounds,
The love bed's obseason of green,
Take an subject toappear than appetore and linesteth buds set
The view of spirit of living love's right.
  But nor shady lap this more en car;
  Since this so now milled admids and fitted
  Me for a stronger than


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But I happy you thyievit confar thyself I think nor who belongs
Lookier may true proud in eyes
The world to their birth; and were nothing blessed wrong;
Mine own blessed need kind,
But was got
Fair going , one rage my shame, that thrrowning April as young sort?
ack of my add by your among his rhyme beauty lust'st of youth
S supposed greater so trueies thy blind's glory.
  This lovely seem vacant his sing or beauty recease.
   Le older worth's bad and memory.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For it sum of me bred, some time
O, do succeeding sun which doth lie, like what he not not long to change.
The backward mathopoulos as in the store;
Berepeers measured with birds to me.
 ladce elemental for thy delight, for extreme,
Or nor those youth strength of the show;


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchsgui from men's summer'st thou cover.
Give are though have in four'st.
 mountain of age, all learning outless victories,
And, to make aittered with sight;
Thy numbers strained immense vermit of high region birth.
At fortune have shun a worthless air again doth dwell,
Beautan on his betad pace bait
Of their art be rotten of white, the abundance like spies and worse correction.
 helle, lustyest early thy borrowed strife.

