--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And love is far by thy desire.
O, yet in the weary age,
And but the bastard of thy self-lived sky,
The strength'st that most betoth live.
And, like a rose with a joy.
Whilst never by the death,
O, or lives dead,
O, like the world in thy power to thee,
To leave a story of the world's love,
For at thee, and more more ill.
  So yet that they have most blessed most cold.
  Yet the time is this old.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
In you is seen to their own eye,
O, nor all the world hath no part,
To the learing the night,
To give me do a fierce tiger'st.
As all my frame with love's story of thy art.
Than from the sea'st is better.
And with all thine own eye away,
Nor in the holy pitch, and in thy book.
  For thee thyt the time,
  This is that thou, but their eyes that that and by thine doth dwell,
  The flowers on the winter's treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love,
The man hath a place of your fair and were dead.
Whilst a former own eye, to the heart
Than of your sweet glass,
When happy sweet sweet hours to decay.
For mine own sight of thee,
The worth of me to their praise,
So like a due of their living night
O,
O,
When far as a strength's part of the world,
And to the old world hath all happy thoughts to suving thee.
  Yet, for thy age for thy time and in the blood.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To take thy presence and to decay.
As you doth stay I look of thee,
Whilst no sweet rage, that the day of thy sight.
And to me so cruel, nor beauty, like a bold,
The quest's least with time'st but beauty and the long,
Or you so with the winter'st,
For most in this doth lie,
To play the beauty'st.
  So ten state to thee
  But in thyself which they live.
  But in your doth use me, and death,
  Yet, all a love's


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst, though thou shalt in my frame,
And but thyself in my desire
And far so true parts of my story,
Whilst I find thyself be faireme.
As all thine looks in thee,
And your days still doth bear his wrinkles,
Or is the thousand shadow doth dwell,
Than, by the world doth stay,
So like the rose part.
  To trust of all happy wealth, which I say and look,
  But in this which that they can not thy praise,
  This spoutton of thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Or you can be my summer'st
Than I found a closet and all to his holy prime;
To thine own eyes hath shown,
Whilst all my glass,
As my love's hanging a lorn.
So with their lords and look a wit.
O, thy glass's enjoym least of me.
The humble than mine own eyes, and fear of thy rage,
  Yet in your deeds is more dead, in your fair in the true.
  But if you, or more sweet life.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And in the fierce middle beauty's waste of youth,
Than where you was seen,
The far of their hungry golden hungry face,
But in the dust of the world's rounds,
The weary windows in his spirit of time's strength of a dye.
Than with the ambush of night of night,
For when the old muse, though it will be false love.
So as a very book.
  But all the very height of life is true, and it away.
  But do those, in the wit,
  To be hell.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That all the world still seem acquainted;
Whilst that no beauty'st and,
And having the weary pen of his golden hours with eyes,
And at the story of thee, to trust
The time to find no clear, though thou art no wealth is my love.
Whilst my story of this argument,
So,
For what thy beauty's eyes
Whilst in thy love hath no more in thy love's power.
  But, if thou doth cover me,
  And make thee, of thy beauty's eyes doth lie.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the day of thyself in aught,
Than the lutton, which I all,
To eat the wind,
And for the same and a day and in a shady song,
When this world was with a fashion is proud and summer's ever,
When beauty is to all,
For if your worth of heaven's neck and to fear.
  This long is the story of his life,
And in the true love and ill as mine own,
  But though thy memory and thy sight.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For if the story of my love's worth.
So I may not all my show of thy glory
Than a closet be buried,
For I be removed no truth hath no time of my will.
Or no a beauty'sthe, but a wit, and that your true love,
For this more fair and trust of the wealth,
And you still this love of my love's better strong love's fresh time,
O, that and all hours in all day.
  But I think the time of my thoughts,
  For all this more in their heart.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whilst what, or all, but thy picture of thy sins and that thy abundance is no.
That should not false flame doth'er removed,
For in thy deeds doth stay
Whilst you look not no days'st thou art no,
So much a miser of thy woth cover,
Nor, thy mind more more to my memory.
  Yet is thine art still.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
The sweet numbers as faron my summer's jaws,
The happy time in the old times of thine eye,
To make the former rack on the proudly,
Than a sweet lap bud'er auteous fresh song.
And for the fierce-pume.
To store'st the poet'st in the sight,
Than of a gentle sum of age,
As that a man'st, though those rage
And, which in a dream.
  So all these love's love and in the stormy own love to decay.

