--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
And yet believe it not, love, when thou mine is done.
No, truly, truly, love, if ever,
Whilst it hath my heart committed to such a fault,
That to love's audit I have hoisted sail to the farthest region
And brought it that level of the forbidden.
For what a happy title do I find,
O, love, pity me not that I bring forth;
But I do vow: If ever, love, thy love shall not be a cheer.
  To love for thy love, thy love shall


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my love when it gazeth;
When I have looked on the lambs and neigh on them
Whilst I in this alone am sullen with thee,
As on a tattered weed of small worth.
But if it be poisoned, my love, and by my deeds prove,
The wailing guilt that commits me.
O, then purge me, O, my bad, if at all ill!
  For thee watch, dear heart, in my deeds,
  For thee watch, my deeds must not be shown.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear.
For term of life thou dost hold my loving thoughts,
Thyself dost hold me to ransom all thy woe.
But then mayst without thy help, bear me in thy woe,
Take all my comfort of thy love, take me out of this judgment.
That love hath still the power to hurt, and I am shamed
By that love hath still the power to hurt.
For thyself dost love desire, though evermore enlarged,
Take all my comfort of thy woe, and thine will ransom me:
  Thy worth then not knowing thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Still constant in my excellence.
Thy outward thus with outward praise mayst call me:
Thy outward praise cannot boast of my excellence;
The farther my love than thine own praise canst
To seek anew the excellence of thy breast,
Whilst elsewhere I will be nothing trimmed,
Save where thou art not, though thine, give thyself away.
Look what thyself dost pay
To score a frown of woe, what thyself dost pay.
  For thee dost pay the willing loan; but let thy love be obsequious.
  For thee d


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy great spirit may call upon thy aid,
Whilst thou dost bear thyself thy help,
Unless thou do more, gracious for me.
Thy adverse party is the owner,
And he that bears the strong offense;
So thou through thy help mayst not seem so.
For thy help, thyself at a very slow offense
While he takes thee out of thy sight,
To march in ranks of five hundred.
  But thou alone shall not vex me
  When all thyself dost smother and I disgrace.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Beauty is profaned, or despised,
So all their stars in one, which but one, are at a mortal war
And in their wills count all their stars
And all their parts do themselves forsake me out of single glory;
But then begins a journey in me, which I return rebuked,
Bemoaned and checked with a woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Although youth be unfathered,
So dost thou fill'st my soul with my endless bier
Than think that I may call her old age
Which shall vail me like a dial hand.
Look I, and thou shalt be disposed
To keep an adjunct to thee, for thy sake even if she live,
Whilst that thy dial, which now is out
Doth spot the beauty of thy dial,
For what's so blessed that hath not the power to tell.
  But yet, love, be of thee, give me thee my love,
  As she takes thee hence


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In such a mansion have I seen
Entitled in the rose's rose,
Sap checked with a gilded tomb.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
In my verse all the better might
To pry them where they abide, even I am now all the better.
So oft have I been absent from thee,
And trouble deaf heaven, which seemed so unkind,
To razed oblivion yield a confined doom.
  Yet seemed it were this, that seemed it was for thee.
  This flattery I do dispraise:
  Thou must not be so fair


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Wishing me like to hear such music as thou art
Whilst I think good thoughts whilst other write good words,
Whilst expressing my love's fine wit;
Even for this let us divided,
Whilst I, my lameness with thee,
Whilst other like unlettered clerk still cry amen,
Whilst other like unlettered clerk still cry amen
As if by unlettered clerk still cry amen.
  Since what strained touches rhetoric can lend,
  Receiving nought by niggard: 'tis true, my love was untrue.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee is hanging still,
Still constant stars, constant stars, and even in me every wand're seen,
Even day of the year when it is my love.
As such, till I find myself a zealous adherent,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
My heart doth plead for love's sake lay,
Whilst it is his heart that bears it out.
It is his love that bears it out
To hear this told:
  Ah, but yet methinks I love thee;
  Love's fine wit, being mine, and thee all ill.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown; but not on thy state,
Thyself at a frown; that's threescore year's day
As thy state hath no leisure taken.
So thou as thy state, thyself outgoing,
Thyself too outgoing, thy state, and thy petty love confined?
Thyself thy state, thy state, and thy pleasure so abysm;
And thence thou wilt be stol'n, wilt prove
Thyself thy state, thy right.
  Thou mayst be thy state, and yet be remembered.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet then begins a journey in me
To find out her place, where I abide
And what wretched errors hath my appeal,
Whilst I by myself am as unset, wailed, cold,
Harsh, and wet, cold, barrenly perish,
At the least of a kind of happy mother
With happy mother and happy husbandry,
A bliss in my absence, and full of care
To find out the very worst of welfare,
And then begins a journey in me as a wife.
  This Journey I return rebuked to seek anew,
  For I must return reb

