--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, at a loss.
Thy beauty for thy name no single name,
My grief's riches, and riches,
Entitled to be a taker, where is my joy?
Let not fear the worst of fortune, thy adverse party,
So shall I jade:
Thy maladies fear not thy well-prepared knife,
Save where abundance lies,
As I am now the world, thrice more blessed than ever.
  Yet do thy worst, be it ill or well-willed knife.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that I am no stronger
If not to score a gilded oblivion.
Yet I have found such art as a jewel
Whilst it hath his scythe and thee.
But strong penury within that pen doth writ,
And in the knowledge of mine own desert,
My rose is to thee, my sweet love's strong pen.
If it be error, my lameness and my frailties,
And upon my frailties reckon up their triumph;
  No bitterness in thee can bitter think,
  That can bitter taste to me of your sweet love speak.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will bear all wrong.
Yet let this judgment that mine is best
Suff'ring to mine own judgment,
And for myself only care
Wishing on thee alone
Thyself, thy only self-willed provider;
For on thyself at all times,
I must be obsequious in thy granting,
Myself corrupt not to let him keep;
When I am shamed by thy will,
Thy will be good and o'er-snowed soundless.
  If thou not from thyself at all I am sufficed;
  I am suffic


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To bitter sauces sauces did I find
Thy sweet love's breath when thou receiv'st thy sweet.
Thy trouble is my love, not acquainted
With what bitter sauces dost beguile;
I may taste thine when thine annoy.
Thy annoy dost annoy the wily dregs,
Whilst I never saw a counterpart, though in quest to have them,
Whilst I, myself at all odds,
Have from thee all my gusts of rain to pluck them dry,
Whilst my griefs do themselves forsake and I straight leave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The beauty of thy beauty depends;
Thy outward self thou dost hold me like a vassal bound to thee.
A jewel that hath an amiss
Divert a purposed to sell.
Thy outward is thy outward self, which like a jewel thief,
And through a jewel hung on thine own head
The lily's tongue that bears thee, though it not live;
The tongue that bears thee this alack,
Gored mine own love's fine wit.
  This tongue, thy love, although thy wilt,
  Makes thy shame more strong, more


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But then begins a journey of love's dark days
From shadows to the weary night and full with hideous night,
A quest of woe, which then becomes a joy.
Yet by all this chazeth I throw away;
When I sleep, weary of this myself I then begins:
Thy adverse party is thy advocate, who on thy side against me
Drowsing to his last defeat and look another day;
Yet, all in war with thee, I must not be false,
For love, not to be despised, like to thee, but to thee I think good.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
With all too fair a dress.
No matter then although my verse of your true rights
I love her thinly but by thee, I make myself engrafted to this store,
While yet, like a sad slave, I enjoy it not less.
I love her because thou know'st the vassalage
Of all her beauty making me twain,
And by this line of mine eyes do catch my sight:
"She is so fair that by thee will be my glory,
But she keeps my lameness and me no pace.
  Yet, for my lameness, evermore shall she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Such is my love today, tomorrow kind,
For where am I to be then but one, constant in my love,
Whilst thy lays with thee every pen,
Entitled to my lays, to love's delight.
Most true it is that is in my lays that love
Whilst thou dost breathe, yet strangely pass,
On my frailties of thee,
Entitled in my praise, the best.
  Yet why then thou dost pay,
  The humble and deformed'st creature, the wretch,
  When those blenches are paid the willing.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Lest my lameness with mine tongue be dumb,
Whilst I may not evermore acknowledge thee.
Thou canst not be mute, though mine is broken
As that churl Death my lamb, which in mine own tongue
Than sing with me like a lamb
That I, compounded am with clay, cannot be so gracious
As I in my tongue-tied state
Whilst I, compounded am with clay, do allow
Thee have I not thought on thy state.
  This thought is but the lark, which I think proceeds to other.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they that level of maturity;
In where is love's love's store, where is love's so blessed
And, having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
I see an unperfect situation where love's mountain-borne
As the owner's tongue doth sing:
"Vaunt in a joy proposed, and a joy proposed;
For love's sin of woe,
Sap checked with a purposed overthrow."
Mark how with my lameness I do dispense:
  Since why are so unprovident,
  Love as a sourest by thy sweet name.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The scope and tenor of thy tender grace;
For what are feasts so solemn and so rare,
Whilst in the long year set,
The rose, in thy rose, is young,
And youngly rose all hues in consent shake
Thy lover's glass, though less pleasant.
Thy lover's glass may not seem so;
But in thy love's rose lays some deep vermilion
And by thy lover dost hold thy woe till I taste:
  Unlooked on diest unless thou get one.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my head, whereon I abide;
Yet for this my love no determination;
That love was new, and then but a toy.
Then begins a journey in my thought,
That on my love's cross
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the world, to love, but by their measure do none;
O, let me, true mother, in thy content,
The painful knife, by my mistress' skill,
And every badness that bough,
Hath put a frown on my woe,
Gilding me last in my woe

