--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And, all in war with myself,
Forsworn by my love's false argument,
I in black ink rage;
And in their riot I find a victor
And, in their burning rage, lose all their treasure.
I then lose count of all the mourners
And, all in war with myself,
Die for my sin, and lose all my treasure.
But then, love, I have no leisure
To look on the world or to the dear-sunken world.
  For heaven knows that love hath no leisure.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For when my heart hath writ this to you,
The thought that you have some part,
I in your heart's contentment,
The thought that I in your heart
Have some part to plead,
And that in your heart's content
My sin is my love of you.
No, it is not enough that my heart's content
To hear your argument in fullness
Of what I have writ, and what you have done.
Your sweet love is enough, and I am your advocate
To hear your argument, and to win your respect.
  So you, to my love, am


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined.
Yet what of thee that dost trust
Is that which I in thee dost trust?
No, that is thine, mine is the trust of others.
So that, by thy trust, I may be of good report,
And from thy heart dost lie,
For that sin which thou in trust doth lie.
For thee I may be false in this, and in thine eyes I view,
But in thy heart my love lies,
  For thee I may be false in this, and in thine eyes I view.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when she fears I will be out,
She will not let me be out, either by night or day,
But, spite of all, be contented when thou find
The gentle spite of fortune's cruel hand.
O, let her suffer, that I may be out,
Thy lover's woe, and she will be none;
She will be but the proud wife of mine,
And I, by thee, by thy help.
  Thy love is thine, and mine is thy help.
  Thy love is thine and mine is thy help.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy worth, thy beauty, is but the sum of my parts,
And yet, in thy sight, it is not so.
For thy part it is enough that I see thee,
And thou, my soul, dost in thy sight,
Dost in thy sight be thy help,
And, thy beauty being so great,
Thy sight is but the roof of my heart,
And thou, my sightless soul, dost in my sight,
Beauteous and kind-hearted, all alone.
  Thou, my soul, dost in thy sight,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that in their level they see things quite.
They know that in thy level they see
Thy glass will be rich in thy glass,
And they know that in thine level
Thy dial will be the height of ten,
And that in thine level
Thy dial's height be measured from thine eyes.
They know that in thine level
Thy dial's height is measured from thy heart,
And they know that in thine level
Thy glass will be rich enough for thine eyes.
  But thou, love, will not mine eye mine eye mine eye


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I in the west should see her progress,
But that, heaven knows, she is but a babe
Made of old age, barren of all invention.
So, 'tis true that I in the west admire
The beauty of the pebbled earth,
And the sweet gulls, but that in the west
I see nothing but barren of all invention.
So, 'tis true that I in the west see
A common gull, which in the west doth live,
Or, if not, it is false that she robs from me.
  She stores all, not just what


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For truth knows that thou in thy deeds hath
Thy edge to truth, and truth in thee.
O, that my love may be,
But that it be false that thou mine,
That it be false that mine is true;
That it is the eye of truth that doth mine
To see what is out and what is hidden.
Thy edge is thine, and mine is thy truth.
Thy edge is thy love, and mine is thy truth.
  Thy love is mine, and mine is thy truth.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy frailties more than my heart's content.
So then thou, my friend, can afford
The thought that my dear love hath in some sort of trouble,
And that it hath some part to suffer,
Yet yet not the spite, being made by thee.
So then, if thou survive me,
Thy frailties are not enough to make me graced,
And thou alone shall be the wailing head
Of that sorry bell that doth every bark bark sing.
  Be thou the tenth of ten, ten times ten, and ten times ten.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me their lusty thoughts
Hath added a joy.
For what is this love that mine eyes see,
Which in thee dost love the most?
O, be of the wits of mine eyes,
Who, by their own wills, are in my heart
As stone for their treasure doth lie,
And in me the proudest joy find.
Mine eyes, by their own wills, are in my heart
As stone for their treasure doth lie.
Mine eyes, by their own wills, are in my heart
  And, like to their own sick, mine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That to this state I may be removed,
I may be buried, but not be with the world,
For thou, my love, mayst be thine,
And for that sin no man can be so gracious.
Thine state, so thou gav'st, is thine,
And in that sin there is no remedy.
Thine state, so thou gav'st, is thy remedy.
Thou gav'st not to be thy advocate,
But to be an advocate, to be thou art.
  Be not an advocate and be dumb,
  Being


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With swift motion the babe's swift latch.
The babe's swiftness is not enough to hold her back,
It is so swift that it cannot be leapt,
And so doth the proud-pied wretch leap,
Riding on the horse with his rider.
The proud-pied beast, which in swift motion doth catch,
Sets down a rider with his swiftness,
Called to the ambush of his rider,
Sinks, 'gainst his speed, and his rider with him.
  The proud-pied beast is so dumb,
  That he

