--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of full-dead thy days.
Yet thou be not despised
For thy sensual beauty they outwardly dost adore;
On thy lips they tongue dost praise.
For thee this this inestimable sullen shame woos,
How dost love's blindfold consecrate thee
Seeking some pardon of sin?
For all thy blood I do art hated in this state
And am due, even thy willful offender.
  Thou shouldst then attend by a religious veil
  Thy outward gaudy birds o'erworn in numbers.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I will no longer suffer
Than when thou dost purge my brow and thy breast;
Mine is yet the first blot that tomb will stain
Where beauty lives and fears dead age;
Her beauty doth lie, mine is shown but bitter shade
Save where thou art buried. When thou mak'st it stain truly indigest
I'll mourn and change my life
For good or for evil, her or thou shalt live.
  For I lacked thee that starved heap where thou livest.
  Since then thou so abused me thou must live
  Unless thou brave my ghost


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
Then whether he be present or absent I am far from my mind,
Or else what shall he say, hisself I swear or my love?
These answers upon your view are crowned with hope
Exciting o'ersways, when fortune better may build or thou live
For every end lodged in thy side.
The world and thee know thy inward silence,
For their jewel can thus mend a blind eye,
The wretched offender borne and cunning thief alone.
  To deny thou shalt blazon'st my lie;
  O, why shouldst thou wish so, that the world hate


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or if I this wretched fortune come t'appear
By skill and discontent the well off contend.
If a happy man deface our embassy,
Thou, though sour, rob'st my blood;
Or else suborned, impiety's substance that drinks it.
O, stop that, excuse me, being told
So much that it touches thy heart,
Gilding my pride, adding ill to my legacy.
How wrong werest thou to be so conceited
That by some misty offense evil got thy bail.
  If this my habitation change, let it be ill


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What praise can praise make that can never be false?
Look how, like a swire doth defy outward,
Making such a stop from his course,
As thou overturn'st not to be thrust to the earth;
Entitled to four defects in one,
Thou art contented wait no longer
In overturning the straight sea to me bring.
Why, heaven forbid, if thou art contented wait no longer,
Who would not impair thee in those things,
Thou art the spite that is truly seen
  From such a place wherein thou hide'st.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And more than their glass windows answer the shade
Of roses and opals and rarities.
Hearing this's grossness my face I think,
But they as I see grow pale, barefooted,
And seem not mortal. For they see no beauty in thee
O, what yellow dost thou dig'st?
If, though thou art kind, unkind, uncloying,
Thy beauty should kill thy sin; if it should kill thee
It's not evil thou know'st; it is love, love that needs
For beauty that dwells in all things evil.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As truth which much devours shall be deformed.
Then whether from falsehood or astronomy I can write,
Or from deformed earth shape or shape'st
The majesty of your love, all kings' birthless, will be told.
But now that you see me so ill charged
With truth and from astronomy and idolatry
Yet deemed but as a wanderer I lead your way,
From thy that painting to thy pattern.
  All alchemy hath scythe power, thou son of the woe.
  Even all pure, unperfect means hath it frailt'ry.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make my desire to thee more evident,
Than husband to me if necessary break the silence.
Even so present with thine ignorance wilt thou think
Thy love and thy husband to it be so strongly
So strongly assured that "gainst myself" would believe it.
O, find a loan, report this folly,
And grace my gift to thy well-doing part.
O, be kind, knowing others' love to thee,
Not to blame thy user but curse them for this sin.
  Wilt thou single look twice upon me when I straight do spur
  To free myself


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my disdain
Above which other tongues pluck.
No man, let my love that would answer
Lift me up to my rage with unbounded rudeness
Against which thou coldly carry me down naked,
Against which by time wrackless my strangle may build.
O, why live worms so cruel to thee,
That slide back on their basest tendrils and make more bloody
Since first thy leisure?
Thou, the wretched tyrant that by hours constricts mine steel,
Thy lover's love robs me of my days and gives thee life.
  Ah, so proud


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
They all believe that I hate their beauty.
Mine own faculty acquainted with thy deeds subscribes;
Thou are the sun and moon in thee,
Yet mind I scold not thy truthfulness
For they were created to deceive the day.
For if a woman fear that her limbs dangle,
They burn not in heaven but in hell;
So I cherish mine own poor image,
Like a sick widow from the world to leave.
  My love is that which thou wilt, which I shouldst remain,
  Because love, as much as this, is such.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Incapable of blame!
"Nor sorrowful play," say I,
Nor in thy public praise do I frequent praise
How much better my muse doth sound.
"Fair enough," said I, "in manners and private skill
For simple things must I speak and prove
Without unwarranted tongue-tied epithets."
"Fair enough," continued others,
"in married affairs my lofty beauty doth live,
And with thee my delight may live.
But for thy grief my sin lives,
Against my rank trespass I might be put out,
  And thy do thee fair


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then I see the groan of the world's loss--
My babe wrackled out of shape to live--
Doubts heavy victories never cease;
And to run I'll add to this groan--
"Shall I be wakened, for I have known this famine
For half a hundred winters? Give us some comfort, for this we must thrive!"
And thus did I recite sweetly,--
But then I thought of your beautiful doting husband
Who spoils not death to woe, and lives on love's sick eyes!
  Yet find much death still hanging

