--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So as I by thy perfumed cup
Have drunk the blessed bitter cup of Death;
But, lo, every blot upon mine eye
Could for fortune's bastard shame pluck from mine eye,
And from the deep into thine eye
Come to rest upon all-too-precious shadows
Have subsisted on the rain and tender drops
To breed fear in the tawne and sweet roost
And, to trust their controlling,
Mine eyes therefore sin by thy stain;
 Their sole grief lies upon thy gaze,
Loss of thee, of thee, and of thy love.
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For once in my weak minutes am I again sickened
Where by dreams I see stars burn and nothing but yellow
Delights in the little bough where endless stars doth ride
Where yellow pebbled flowers on their sway ride
And rosy cheeks with outworn dress make hideous
Bearing all the travail of winter's day,
Spending all his strength to brave him where?
For fear of winter's wrong,
Sinks up his fierce beast and leads him on
As high as the canker in the rose.
  Then live I not and look cold and death be
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Hath been scorned, forsaken, or loathsome,
To leave a husband and wife in absence,
Without all esteeming me that pays the rent.
Yet do not in this, I plead, that he is true
For what is mine to mine eyes, not for his humor?
What are thy blenches that graven there,
Which, when no one hath him, flourish on his humor?
  In that sin now my heart
  Lifts his heavy jaws to his side,
  Save him that bears his cross.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For those stones that pierced thee have not pierced
Nor pierced thee with plagues beaten.
Such is thy love, to wit,
The one, the other with heat having come.
Rise, and audit me when thou come,
Speak to me in the other; my audit never shall be missed.
My pleasure lies not in mine eye but in the salve where it belongs.
So be the pleasure of mine eye,
Thy gentlest sight, whose gentle infection
Hath traveled all the way; his presence is not his spite.
  Therefore be hell, and hell hath no humor


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy lover hath let mine eye graven,
Which sight hath his own blind spot
Which heaven within thine own amiss
To say with my perceived thief thine eye
Who steals thy treasure and doth this what thou dost pay.
Yet if, for thyself too cruel be thy sight,
Thy sight thy sight will give thee such grace,
Thy love thus hath thy heart;
My love depends upon that which it depends.
If thee in thy sight be false,
My heart thine eyes see, my heart thine be dumb.
  Thou, thyself so


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But those for whom it lies, are strangely
Lose sight of that which it depends.
For those for whom silence hath no face,
Dost thou then willfully lie,
Which needs no delight to win, losing sight of thee?
Yet methinks beauty cannot then win
Where eyes cannot see thee do thy great art,
Or hands that audit thee.
Thou alone art the conqueror of thine eyes,
So for thyself art thou the conquered slave of thine eyes,
  Which for thyself art so disabled.
  The victor lies victor, even thou, the


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And see far off the stars when she robs the land;
That I am the first to greet my sight,
Or some blenching oblivion found
That her tongue doth comment
On you, sweet love, from far where I am not.
In another tongue her poesy doth dwell
And, speaking of men's eyes,
The first she hears from thee, being full of thy tongue,
The second, less true, her better.
  So thou and I alone canst keep this war from going.
  But unless she find you, she keeps me to that end.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or draw my lips to tears, since Wounded
By thy maladies hast come to my head,
Shall I comment upon that sin?
Whate'er thou then, even if it be false?
Save what thou do pay, mine eye, Wound me by it, and thou steal my love of that.
Be thou the tenth of nine, ten times enlarged
And ten times ten times happy me; now, thank me when thou get
That ten of those ten times is better.
  O, stay, wait, and be advised of this change:
  Thou teachest what


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
Than when my pen hath writ that thou wouldst frame
A pebbled mess in thy book.
Thine dost dependents, and that's all they abide,
But that not all their comments are bad,
Thine own words do their presagers nothing but praise,
And so folly in thy breast
Dost for slander to hurt thee,
Making me much worse acquainted,
Thine own tongue's bad wit most esteemed;
Therefore I chide thee, but you are too much profane
To this petty argument evermore chide.
  Take heed, lest, by


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For theirs I witness those errors in thee.
Thyself art thy advocate and my sense well know,
For thou within the heart my lawful argument's waste,
My life hath in this writ:
That the book wherein thou liveest
Is the worthiest jewel in thy heart.
Thou, that art so dost hate this book,
I besiege that what is not my fear.
Thyself's truth is this:
Thy lover's truth is thy love,
And mine is this: mine is thy love's joy.
  If there be joy this, mine is the


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who, moving with yours, in thy budding love takes delight,
Feeds on the right, that freedom to hurt,
Crooked works against the right, that heals him that's struck.
But seeing thee, how should I comment upon that
Which I by external grace, have no right,
Feeds on the wrong, and in his fury reigns?
Ah, he that's in love with you,
Plods on and I, tired of the grind,
Desiring less, and with his abundance set.
  O, him that's in love with you, do you no wrong.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her minutes are remembered, and her thralls mourners
Do nothing but mourners weep,
And then the birds imitate their song,
For sweet delight and in their quickness die.
As a noted away slave bids her on,
Her wakened slave, this speechless beast
Whose speechless cries and steals that delight
From morn to robb'ry and moan shame,
Attending the pluck that works with thee,
Grows to exhaustion, and so morn, wrack, and lame that this kind of time
Hath spent.
  And what shall bere

