--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, for loss.
The swy glass in me hath not seen,
Those gold candles fixed in ghastly night
But sad mortality o'ers the gazeth with white and lusty leaves quite bereft,
Even from where at pleasure thou art.
Had from the onset come and part; why then fear of all this I wonder
At such a beggar's gate I behold
Thy revolt, thy right, best in me.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  And in the night thy fear mayst taste;
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For to be straight though I swear
Thyself for thyself at a greater sum. But what's so fair that for thyself doth use
And for thyself dost bear that offense,
And that unfair title that mine is so sullen
And by thyself dost hold me up to a gilded tomb
Such seems my love to thee,
Whilst I, my great mind, being at all ill,
Sinks down to death with a look;
  If thyself be ill, thy thoughts, my love, be it ill or well
  Makes me seem like a


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is found.
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
My bonds in thee are all determinate bonds.
For if thou suborned informest this bower,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
For if thou suborned informest this bower
Than Adonis, dearer I am the prime
And by the unlettered clerk still cry: "O, give me thy thanks if I am sullen:
No thank to thy worth, if thou suborned informest me
  Where no audit can speak,
  As if by thee I am sullen.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And that unfair repose for thee keeps?
Thyself thyself ill-posed might or thy will,
Whilst I be cast away, and must not remove,
Thyself away are sweet, beloved of many, still, so dost thou.
So why thyself thyself at such a halt
When in quest to mend some old thing?
Thy self thou dost beguile me Be absent from thy life. Be absent, be absent from thy noon, be thou my sullen hour;
Come on thy revolt, and be my woe; defeat me of thee straight


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. Thy scythe gives thee that due.
For thy bequest gives thee releasing,
Whilst what's hidden in thee,
Not this our feeling is best or worst,
Being a mansion where all tenants abide,
That it's not razed obsequious tear
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
For nothing this wide world may call me here,
Whilst I will my fickle glass nor thy sword
Beeking that level of heaven's gate.
  O, but what of thee, thy good or evil?
  Thy worst was thy love's creation? The strong offense was it


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The perfect answer, what a fool is so fair.
They in love be nothing strange, and in themselves quite destroys
Yet this brief rhyme cannot seem
To be a satire to be,
It is the travail of a worthier pen
Who in their wills count every thing that writ,
So that his lameness still may keep his scythe and his scythe and thee.
Such is love that love hath his gust and is it's worst.
  But till this my verse have figured out,
  The very worst essays and praises I dare to devise.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet, like prayers divine, I send this written embassage
To give full particulars to my verse
Of faults concealed wherein I am attainted,
And like unlettered clerk still cry amen:
"Had my lameness and intents confounds"
"Fair, kind, and true" all the better,
And by far greater proof surmise accumulate;
For why then, despite thy every bad, still abide;
  The 'tis thee, myself am I all the better.
  For thee and for myself am shamed by that which I bring forth.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Askance and change decrees of kings,
Whereto all mine eye and thee,
One, one, ten times happier,
As I increase my appeal.
But when I have looked on thee
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
That increase my appeal quite to that level
As I increase my appeal to this growing age,
I gain the thrice more by this, more enlarged pen;
Yet then begins a journey in my appeal,
Whereto all mine, mine is all thy love.
  Give me thyself thyself at pleasure.
  I do thee mine,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my love;
I do vow, and this blessing o'er:
Thou dost beguile me thou bear a pure unstained prime.
How can I then be elder than thou art, which now my prime
Whilst that thy prefiguring is allayed
On tender churl, by thy urging, I am obsequious
To those whose receivest from thee,
Cheered and checked, by advised and checked.
  And nothing strange occurs, although that tongue distils.
  The worse was this: my love was love's first invention,
  And by thee almost


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their thoughts on thee
Doth part his function; their verdict is determined
Whilst their sullen eyes, which in thee arise.
Thy prognostribe, that is the beauty's argument,
Whilst those vices that fester within
Are windows to peep, to be outstripped by their antique skill.
Our glassed  And by thy help, I do hush,
As thine annoyances do whate'er with me.
  But if they sleep, and think on thee, sleep I cry:
  I will not wail thee like an


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Do I envy those vices whereof now thy remedy is,
And like a vassal bound to bear all burdens.
Thyself thy image in these contents is but the store
Within this fair subject is put
Within this private heaven the gate,
And almost thence for thy love there is but the pleasure.
Thyself thy image in the sun, thy glory,
To be thy self at all thy graces and all thy all-too-precious.
  These offices, so restored are
  Where all thy glory lies, and thoureescore it;
  And nothing


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in me,
Whereon I must attend all her hours of pleasure,
But see no determination o'ercharged
In me thou dost hold thy beck,
Whilst the world and all of them hath left me;
I see a pure unstained prime.
Thy looks, thy show is far more keen,
My heavy appetite I never more will grind;
That I have had this large appetite;
Therefore with thy help I have had this large increase.
  But since then, great wealth and all ill,
  This ill well! But by all ill I

