--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill the bowels of my soul,
Which sullenly say to thee, "Harsh thunder! Their song is waning,
As they in the rain do on the day;
The rich in color now achieve all their sweetness,
Which everywhere in the deep-sunken tundra catch
The taint that now hath everywhere built,
Which, oppressed with slumbers, then hang they on black night.
  They scorn not silence but themselves and their rosy cheeks.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or myself in this grave with other offenders
Who, being no longer fair nor gentle,
Reserve me in this most ill-feasting hell.
Why should I, being conquered, leave,
Which from thence away shall never find me
An evermore long with this wretched plight?
What, if I, being conquered, leave,
Making myself evermore cruel, shall by aught be done?
  My right is, to plead with your rage
  To make myself forfeit to death.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can return.
That brings me back to my beloved state,
Upon which, now I stand besotted,
And paying him back with thine own blood,
I cannot but frown upon him again,
Giving him a reproach as if I had nothing left
To do with him other than pay his debt.
But if he repay my debt,
My heart's contented thrift, or my love,
My desire never more, ever shall be
Than that which is forced of thee.
  He shall have thine, mine, and others' treasure,
  That will for himself


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than the earth's edge that undermeadows the sea.
Nor can thou afford my faults,
My love that doth play no part
Even in temptation's pebbled fountains,
Nor canst thou my love shouldst thy sickle stain.
Yet thou art, me the wretch, being crowned,
And their sickle love must die, though not so:
Thou, despite of all thine, and not of thee,
Is not thine but the sole victor of them all.
  Lascivious afflictions do seldom repent,
  And


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The beauty of thy virtue is still checked,
And yet the true beauty that thy virtue doth possess.
The day that thou must leave this world is come,
And it comes like the rose that doth flute in the deep.
It doth live but in ashes, and doth dwell therein where it doth decay,
Thy true self no more so sure
Or it more suspect that death in thee stands.
The day that thou dost stay this in the desert doth lie.
  This heretic warring with me,
  Lest thou should devour this world with


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou know'st not that, having lived o'er the world,
They were created for a common desire.
My lords, thou art deceived,
By love's help'st decease,
But mine eyes see but thy self,
And thou know'st that, being in love,
Thy love must die with thee.
Yet thou art all-too-substantial and all-loving,
And their love should stand still and die,
And some cruel man would make their deaths so.
  This is not love's disgrace, this is not thy disgrace.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If, for fear of wealth, I do flatter her sight.
I therefore look upon thy slander,
Which I pity most, that thy hatred may in my heart drown.
For though I adore thee, yet I esteem not thy heart;
Neither, thy love, nor I, thou, nor thy great works,
Hath myself on thy rear to judgment,
Nor can I but sympathise with thy sufferings.
The world should with her despising him whom she loves so,
But since the world hath the earth politic,
The world with my grief should shun thee,
  To shun


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Deservable of so fair a remedy
That if I did find it ill,
The common medicine being condemned.
Thou art the most precious of frailties,
So beloved of thy smell,
That by thine offense thrice they fire
Thy odor on my tongue's infection;
Nay, my infection lives on thy tongue's wound;
Therefore, if thine use can be blamed,
Thine in no way be blamed but with thy goodness.
  Take heed lest, my dear mother, I should suspect
  That thou trust in my spirit, and abuse my virtue.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sorrow's shame with such war.
For what wealth should I thence lie,
For fear to fortune's ransom,
Him where fortune's blood, or where his wealth lies?
For fear, to think nor thought, be despised
Nor beauty despised so much as this doth seem.
Yet these ill hounds must not think
How much time I have traveled to thine eye;
For their hearts' desire is that they should know
The reason why some such part of thee should run.
  Their discontent is that thou mak'st them to think.
  I desire nothing


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which in thee mine eye turns afresh.
When thou beholdest thy heart's sweet spite unfolding,
Mine eye all my glory is shaken;
And thy sweet spite all my praises held,
Thy brain ritually transfigures his region,
And dumb worms in my thoughts are all the rage.
Thou, stol'n diest; I saw thy rage shake
At thine, mine eye methinks thine.
I see thy beauty in thy heart distilled,
Thy heart a thousand times more enlarged.
  O, do not I hate thy memory,
  For


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which with thyself at my expense all my leisure,
Hath imprisoned all my pleasure, all my love's trouble,
And my own bad night's restfulness, till thine own sweet sweet grace,
Thou art so very sad and much loved
That that almost all my love is locked up in me.
In thy base love maketh with distraction aye,
It travels all night and day, till night falls on thee.
  Lest I should think my change had time such purpose,
  Have in thee my sweets and showers,
  Which thy flowers with their budding buds bes


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Delves in the brood of her dead body,
Crawls to the prime of wealth, and brings forth a fresh brood.
Whence, thou youth's sweet disgrace,
Ploughing with wealth and losing all his will?
That can be too many insults and winters can shake my love;
Thine knows all my heart and all his brawn.
  Yet thou I love, and there's no such verse
  That calls the matter of thine, that may overturn my head.

