--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So having ruined thy sight,
How sad I then that my life
Shall be fairer than your fair eyelids had?
By thy eyes I swear, I see another day
Thine eyes in thy glass, yet be oblivious,
Leaving them alack and in possession;
So glad have I found thee, that I but care not so
Than yours, mine eye hath so drawn, and by thee
Wishing the age to come
Within view of all your fair eyes.
  This, which was nimble enough to bear
  To the thralls and uprear was a


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture me so lovingly that when others' eyes are bright
It forsworn to kill me when others' eyes are dark?
Why keep silent when mine eyes are full and bloody
Against their own fierce eyes the most vile sight
Of death's fierce cold and fell prey to their filching gaze?
How do mine eyes so lustre after me,
That their lustre after me hath all too short a story?
O, be absent, my friend, that I may not be sad;
For 't is 't death and his cruel spite entice me that way.
  But be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Under my tongue's roof can profit thee.
No, now he's king
And nothing I can do, nor shall he dare summon
But sell me what is best, if what is best is found.
Yet thou, for my sake graven,
Give him leave to ransom me, or else.
  Then dost thou steal from mine eyes
  And use this to sell thee some part.
  This shall not be enough, unless he ransom me
  Since that he will not ransom me nor take from thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For love's trouble hath no end,
And now I have all the better part of thee.
Thy image fears no more, and now many are gone,
Thy discontent no longer theirs, and the world can see
My true love dead; my discontent no longer thine.
Now in thine eye a different view
Than when first thou art in thine eye,
When in the hell of love's cross
No form of love shall I perceive,
Or eyes other than men's are green,
  Being eyed by some old acquaintance.
  She whose cheek thou drawest not


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy own unfettered will be, when contracted again,
But unless a better gracious spirit greet
With that gracious hand, or else with a worse torment,
This upswelled Mars is not brought back to life;
Thence is it brought back again and liveth a better life,
When I again this time hold a better lease
Than when thou, mine, or the others' eyes,
Take from thine own brain the knowledge
Of this thine delayed death; then from this thou no more shall live.
  Thou too art deceased, and mine shall live thine and thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, 'tis in their own prickle they be
And look upon a ruined page;
They see, but not in thy sight.
Nor dare I question whether thou mayst add anything new
To my pattern of happy hours
Nor dare I wonder how thy lameness did confound
And why thy glass's dullness did stain
  In ten crests thou hadst lived,
  Painting and seeing quite new.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That told of lofty birth would be my pursuit,
With all those who are with me tell her false story,
Or else surmise what she must say,
Where abundance lies, that uneared praise,
Like to the rearward of a winery is,
Or at the rearward of a conquered woe.
What woman's lovely spite hath not endured
That for fear of her bastard shame drowns thee,
Mine own tongue to spur her on with words doth that invent.
  For her love I send sweets, sweets which I love;
  But in thee sweet lips I mend


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thine ear, shallow as the ocean is,
Hath traveled here and there, who have lived here and there,
But, saucy and wail him here, and there worse,
Thine eye for rudeness proves more vile.
For from thy ocean have I come here and there I've seen
Thine eye doth travel, wide-eyed and in thy breast.
So then thou against myself begin
Thy root-eating scandal be,
  And for thy sake provide more relief
  Than the rich in thy sourest fashion.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more,
More pleasing than at first appear in thy tongue,
But speaking of love or falsehood in love's broad
I shall hear thine bell bell bell drown,
For dead lips with frailer teeth,
Of eyes on love's wide world condemned,
And of worms and other frailer strains of the dead.
Such is the state of love in love's heart
That more hath passed than eyes can see,
Made tongue-tied by nature's harmful hand.
  For thee my love's win me out;
  Save that from tongues I hear,
  I an eye hath the power


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And it is mine eye that loves what it dost hate.
Thy loving thought, the thought that doth for love enjoy
Whilst it with mine own own well-contented say,
Bearing the own breath and feeling the sovereign sorrow,
After losing thee, mine own heart to mine own interest lays
The blame where it's due; mine own jealousy doth this but excuse,
O, no! Thy love is mine and mine; mine was thine and mine.
  My deepest love is thine and mine; mine was thy love and mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The object is first my love of thee,
Before my state's pebbled compass,
Within the humble compass of love's truth.
O, but with mine own love, mine own esteem and thyself my praise,
No such religious strife is in this,
A god forbid, that upon my coming down here is shorn away,
Placed in the rearward of false stol'n,
The learned, the dumb, deprived,
The deaf, the lame, and children of the world hurt?
  This sin I do not love, fearful of seeming untrue,
  No love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, what a joy it is that,
When she hath been strumpeted by a mounted woe,
She may hear, and no one knows,
As she takes delight in the world,
But, no, she knows not to let the woe win.
O, love, be of some delight!
Hear, hear, hear, hear, hear; I by and by can see!
Hear, hear, hear, hear; for love keeps what it is brought.
  She gains by fear and by pleasure--
  But for that loss, she enjoys none.

