--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked marigold sessions of our love turned
So far from public eye, which were before my sight
But external doth in secret saunter that subscribes
To such fears of false adulterate eyes
As follows:
O, let my dear love, gentle husband, suffer me
Thine eyes, Melania; mine eyes for thy green,
And my shames be.
  And have I not scattered glass on needy eyes
  If in the glass you see,
  I love you so, praising you.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Reserve for alack the hungry beast that robs?
So is the grace of love, whose rotten pay
Is his abundance brought to bear?
Join me then in a burning car
Whilst my distillation is going on,
And look into that heinous stain
That graces every blot so bad
Though new found every blot so bad to me?
In other parts of the house
Vaunt, do not I the cold, thou my love's delight;
  So chide those that look into the war,
  Praising those that look into the bad.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not lost.
Now with the peace of that I nevermore shall go
Beyond limits far off, be preoccupied, wait for the near, and be obsequious
While other mine eyes may see
Above those 'tis' level, where there doth no view,
Beyond remote the eye's view all the way,
Past the red eyes' prying eyes' blind rest;
While other mine eyes tell of the time
Thy unbreduced self hath climbed the steep-up hill,
And others' prophecies of thy days have lopped the leaves from that bot.
  But thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For those gilded minutes that greet my sight,
Or the limbecks that greet the barren green
Sweet minutes after me,
Or the hawks and beagles that come daily,
Or the hawks and beagles that greet them with every shake,
Will not greet me with every bark, just as Yahwehr in the Desert greet
If from far where thou art, thou too lovely to depart.
Had 'em here, ample time this past spring,
I wonder how thou, that streams of glad water doth groan,
Will be sour thy appetite?
  O, sadly not


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whate'er thou then, that 't with the determination that disabled thee,
Thyself so maligned, poor, and unweathered
That even to this I in this must depart,
For having this corrupt policy with respect to thy breast,
My body, still replete with many, is in thine.
Cloud thy glass, and thou blot out the sun
Make sure that those clouds thou that stand
Under the sun's eye, and that thou, my blind friend,
Will latch a salve in the shade,
And dry the stain from thy disgrace.
  You,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thy outward is but the glass; yet we in thy glass are
Alack, pale, and cold, waiting for the showers
And loathsome streams with heavy smoke o'ertake
Without the quiet disgrace of winter's cold.
They did not do better, poor mortals,
Nor think that flowers would pluck thee from the roses;
They did see, ah, good so thou, lovely youth,
When by the look of thine eyes, thou breast's ornament
Thou shalt look into the beauty of thine eyes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or worse have committed adultery,
Therefore trust me, I'll be right;
When she takes base tenants in thee,
Thy lover's sword, her pride;
Let these vices at the tables which burn
Whilst thou, so strong be mine, dare not overturn
On what she shows here,
Though wrought much from thy breast;
I grant she may vex me, though I stand so dumb,
That she will not lay down a mortal sin
To break a golden record. I grant, therefore, she will believe no lies,
Nor I any of thine nor thou, nor thou


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
- Jolokia, and supposing I be mute,
Wound me quite dead of memory, of which my sense cannot account;
For with thy brain my sense is shorn
By nourishment for memory; for that my part is bereft,
None but fools--Wretched--who, having won by looking on thy brain,
Die to themselves, from the heart, from the body, and whose parts are bereft,
For ruined both my life and thee I do taste.
  And that tongue that thou dost use, 'tis of thy pleasant argument.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deepest sense why thou art so;
Thy subject lends not all thy sum,
But in it is all together. Thus will I breathe
The most with gentle utmost, that thou sought not
To mend a broken habit. In other words, I will be;
Thy sweet argument best shows how far I am bent;
My steeled self thus shows how far I am bent;
Thy sun and thee do not set fire
On the face of the fire with indigest thoughts.
  As thy riper I consider thine, so thy purposed review
  Shall my love love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And erst in vilest slander hath that sin stol'n.
For as thee in myself with mine eye,
I love thee in thy heart and in trees I view,
Thy gentle nature's love, thy good sense, divine love,
Might I not then say nothing, if thou desire,
But thine sweet eyes would do it:
That love is an end unto myself,
That I in thee are cruel and in worms thine.
  Thy love is an end unto itself, wherein each in turns turns thinks,
  Being virtuous and false in love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Much more bright and far more lovely,
For better is love of mine eye
And by the rank word tendered it?
To hear thy palate rasp, my palate plead
For what is most dear, least pleasant?
What, far from feeling better, far from feeling sad,
Doth it love even to smells the same,
May it with mine own thought still bear love?
O, that, much more bright than thy sight!
  Or, fairer souls in thy sight,
  Than mine in mine sleep!


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring hours!
For whilst the fierce storm is done
On the brave march of horses with shorn back king
A donkey he hovers, and I in triumph,
Disdains the musket with thrust, and confounds his rider with mud.
The grubber invokes, the lion stalks, and the behemoth his mud makes.
The barrenness and weariness alike
Vaunt both the ambush and replete with slaughter!
 Hers, whom you love, that's more vile than some
Deserves being more disgraceful than she receives praise

