--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in thine eyes thy woe is my proudest praise.
Yet these eyes with their more tender graces are seen
With mine own bright eyes but blind,
Richer than eyes that can see far.
Look what this world hath to offer,
Thy eyes so full of thy goodness so eager
To show thee how well I would live
If such beauty and wit were not so keen.
  If thou art worthy, perhaps live the best life
  To live sweetly by thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If it were true that my love is at a dead end,
That on that cruel audit I with my heart lose
It's lease of life, for that is yet forbidden.
What I can so importunate lose in days long past,
For once my heart that sits by my death
Is a mute flame, unused, quiet, and ruined,
And when it sings and doth breathe what an unthriftsome moan.
  If it see me starved that day,
  Then it fears not what I in days past did die.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may trust
And live my life at once free.
Since then there is no more poverty thou couldst possess
And every cup more richly spent than the most spent monarch
Who enjoys what he receives, is confounded
With abundance, and neglects that which thou dost give.
If then all my loss was as thou say,
The gainer is none but my burden.
  There is so much to lose that I still thrive
  To give more to thy advantage.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Excuse me, but to be amiss,
When thou shalt be all alone, or to be gone.
Thou hast thy leisure, but that being doth remove,
For thou hast the leisure to rehearse
To give thy pleasure and tiredness rest.
For if thou art set at the consummation of this world,
Thy mind this state shall still stay,
And thou alone still shalt be.
  Then patience shall watch thee from behind
  And this will be thy day.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Why should not I then recite
The "most thine eye hath scope" wherein thou art concealed?
For thy office it is more true than mine eyes,
And that thou art to be blamed than thy office is?
But if I translate this verse to thee,
It should not in any of thine eyes be so much condemned,
As in all tongues to thee.
Thy might is thy view, thy sovereign power,
And thy lease therein is not to be obeyed.
  So thou that in mine eyes thou viewest,
  Thou shouldst believe all the worst of my judgment


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, though they look in the beauty of others,
They do not know thy doting heart, whose strong elements
The world over frown upon thee.
They are thy days of love, thy days of thy beauty.
If thou with me will not reread
The transfiguration of their eyes,
They will find in thy flowers thou day's new delight.
O, thou art thy sweet fairest friend,
  My love thy perfumes to thy sake,
  Though no more sight show that thy sweet smell.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Shall partaker in what deserts poor duty she enjoys
Save where war and poverty strangle her honor.
But love's vassal jealousy still debatably doth hold my heart,
That to the great war of the world I may live to kill,
And all winter's waste at the gilded age shall cover the grave.
  All my favorites were once possessed by love's murd'rous eye,
  Which to the cruel rage of false prophecies lived,
  And yet their flame lives still.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Wilt thou lose me to my discontent,
Spend every wrinkle of thy knowledge,
Suffer me ill to my doom,
Or at death live of woe to blame,
Or be buried with all the rest of your happy men.
O, if thou shouldst have my love, how to repay thee
If in my state you were all idle millions
Who bow with youth to your thriftless fortune,
Who bow no more with vassalage to thee
Than a rud'st doth take thy heart from me,
  Or this addendum:
  O,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy skill's absence in rudeness.
For with faults my tongue doth thrive
And when it doth praise me, it pays no respect.
But when it doth praise thee, it doth show
Thy cruel state, thy worth lies in thy praise.
Therefore if thou dost slander a book, be it
Or a painting, or a book;
Thy thoughts should be removed, for it doth give
Thy tongue a scope of show.
  Thy best writes are in that which thou write most;
  Their purpose lies in thee, that thou mayst write


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that what they hate me is their deepest love.
Since what my thoughts engraft in thee frowns,
The brain that touches thine eye, yet thoughts having nothing to do with my heart,
They all but me hang those errors and thou groan.
Let them believe that this hell hath imprisoned my thought,
And that I cannot bear their hate nor their love lose me.
I adore thee not in my will,
But in their will thine eyes want to hang my thoughts.
  So let them slander not my love,
  But their joy is in their tongue's o'ers


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which knows none but what is in thee.
Thyself this is impure; thy body this is holy,
And thy part is enough in mine,
To arrest all evil, that is, all bad, to make them all.
My virtue hath no self-love in me,
Nor is thy self a self-love.
My love is true love, and my love is hate,
That is, to myself, so false that it confounds
The lovely ornament of thy lips.
  Thou mightst rob a better store,
  Because for my love no thief lives.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With one of her winged hawks' paws drawn,
Drifts out her husband's musket and sheds blood,
Calls her husband's treasure, and sufficed with one swift report.
Pitying every part of her I question,
But joy alone calls the time and leaves me silent.
But the happier part of me thinks,
And much happier words I grant add some of thy love.
  For she that strangled my babe doth depart,
  And she shall live with thee.

