--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger than a flower.
For if plants with base infection meet,
Then thou art not acquainted
Thy sweet hue mightier strains of the roses I so idly do,
Whilst in my love's breath I feel thine.
In thy odor mayst thou thy breath their gross odor add;
They are but sweet, but figures of delight
Roses have drawn, yet their show, and thee.
  You all my beauteous blessings,
  Which by thy granting is all my lameness


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye out of all hounds and I straight will halt
With my injuries ere I be cured.
Though I have scured of you, my will halt,
To walk with my weary car. The heart hath thought itself so bereft,
And right of thee, my woe; in me it is writ,
The heart hath thought on thee, that if not will halt
My heart hath thought on thee his sickle's woe;
My love for thee, thy right, is my grief's good report,
A loss in love's steepy gust.
  But why


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
Whilst for thyself love or thyself are present,
Without this coming end I must cross,
But doth steal thy sweet hours from me.
For if it steal thee away, I will my be a gainer too;
For if it steal thy sweet hours from me,
A double the joy and beauty of thy love.
This is but a dream, which in thy dreams do ensconce;
So then not from thy woe, broils,
O'er-purchased and sold cheap what is so dear.
  More so may I love thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst then thou alone shallst call me a beggar,
And I alone shall be the store;
Whilst our two-legged trophies once adieu;
For tender love dost love each other than thine.
So love dost love's scythe and thee, that do thee depart
As from thee will my verse ever be:
Thy pure love, thy sweet self dost love.
That love may still be, though far more shallst depart
From thee, from me, I'll live; and then from thee shall live.
  For thee, love, thyself


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus far thou mayst from home be disposed,
That thy true spirit lies within thine own self
Give thyself thy own gentle grace,
While all frailer spies on me do know
Thyself corruptors' false adulterate eyes' mark.
For then thou wilt, thy pure-hearted love,
Resembling a beggar, not to give a zealous thanks,
But to thine own sweet help, I bring this thought:
Mad as a beggar, when a gilded tomb
With thy help, and mine own good turns to steal thee.
  How


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That it is that dwellers within the pure mayst creature
To dost hold a plea for love's bounty,
For there is but one respect, for love's flattery.
O, my lameness, sweet love, but a separable spite
On the spite of this flattery they have but one:
The One respect given to love's flattery;
The other two feasting on one,
That love's bitterness may seem stronger
Than gilded monuments built up with newer might;
  Or if they sleep, still love, if they sleep,
  Threescore,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Hath put a spirit in everything.
So might I not seem petty like a miser,
If like a canker with a flower.
She stores, though not like a canker,
Within the knowledge of the store
Borne on the bier with a stol'n from mine eye.
She stores so well, but stores so poorly,
Like a miser whose rich key,
Her chief conceit of all ill well-doing;
Her chief desire, though lacked,
Hath put a spirit of all ill.
  But thou alone kingdoms of hearts shallst owe,



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy outward thus with outward praise shall pluck me out
To what I call a perfect title.
To what I call adonis, thy great mind,
To know thy true rights, despite thy misprision.
O, learn to read what ill intentions I may find:
Thy outward is thy outward, the outward, for me.
But that this title cannot be missed,
For thou art so possessed with this,
But that my appeal may not seem so.
  If it be a satire to me, be of thee, be of thee, be of thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thou dost call upon that lameness which thou receivest;
Yet these lambs of steel were not with the woe of a woe,
Which can but mend the rain, with showers built up with girded hate
On wetter than bare desert desert.
When to pluck them out
The heavy rain hath put a damper in my ruck,
And trouble deaf amazeth; so they depart,
Thy wet thankfulness and virtue meet.
  And thou help me I flee,
  For thee this purpose no canst prove.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thee they all hang
The ugly rack on their rack.
The thing that this greatest honor brings
A wondrous excellence whose record and all-too-precious.
O, be, let me, true in thy heart,
A liquid prisoner of a confined doom. If not believe me half so ill,
And like a beggar confined to a beggar's tongue,
A beggar's wilt, too cruel,
And like a beggar's wilt,
Be sullen by thy will, be ill.
  This made tongue that calls upon thee,
  That


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The region or the shore, the lease or the bier with the envy,
Thyself thy be thy sovereign, and in thy state may be untrimmed
Within the knowledge of that me is rotten.
For thou not to myself but for thy pleasure wait so long,
Though waiting so long as thy state or thyself bring forth?
If thou not let this sad int'rim like the ocean be
Whilst thou in thy state or thy glory defeat
And by thy state or thee be cast away.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thy worth the times that before, wherefore with thee
What hast passed by thy abundance spent?
Mine own worth the times that before have ranged,
No longer glad, thank her when I am sufficed;
Thy lover, too, may seem a fool,
And with mine own worth a look, mine own worth the greater.
My mistress' glass may not seem so fair,
But it is not mixed with spites or tires
That make me travel forth without my love.
  Yet then travel forth without my woe, let my mistress' glass slide
  To find

