--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in sweetest salve their filthy eyes
Seeking for nought but by desire gave;
Feeding on their fire, I with cold,
Take their feeding on their waste,
Strain the earth with their storm;
Feeding on their feeding frenzy, I hard;
Hearing from the deep black they that say I love thee,
Scottish eyes, pale and sourest are I within a frown,
Full of worms, poor look 137 of the world,
Lest there be any false I tell it such lie.
  Lest this be false of heart which in thee robs


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it smells and bears out?
Loving thoughts, my grief is worse than fear
Strikes me dead with every blow,
And it is not enough that looks on me
Not with half-beaten and full on full killing;
It is enough that looks on me with all the worse;
It is enough that heals my grief and me disgrace.
It is 't enough that 'tis loved that works,
It is enough that looks on me with all the greater.
 Well, it is not enough that cries 'love to stay dead,
It is enough that doth myself name


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
O, let him say more, not less, though I in his false report
Be dumb, and summon him to render my consent.
If he be dumb, he shall find grace in my frown,
And that is my feeling, and I in his will hold a plea,
Against myself he shall find no defense.
His glory cannot but be that it grow;
Yet no such joy finds in this; it is a counterfeit brought cheap
From the wert thou my will to eat.
  Thus, for his humor he owes praise, not praise in breed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When besides her I lack, thou shalt find
The very pleasure of being with her alone,
More than with friends than with her alone can pay,
Nor that she hath more respect than my rich chide,
If the pleasure of thy love being sour,
Or else of greater benefit being unhappily gone,
Than be hella to be with that black morn,
When all is played out for me, that separation is almost assured.
Gentle thou, that she may look into all,
Lest o'er dull repose should her rotten show,
Count on me that desire


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Yet in that I will receive many welcome,
From far where thou art, like as in a rose;
As with the rose ill takes delight
And loathsome takes delight in that;
So thou whose lease in heaven's spring
Hath traveled doth linger,
As with the riper showers accorded to thee,
The rarest weed in thy bud,
Shall be thy ordinariness, the fresher weed
And buds grow ten times more red than fresh blood.
  For thine eyes thy sight shall see,
  Or thine "sternacle" which tops beams


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, 'tis buried, in their common graves,
For oft, but not always, shall they see it increase,
For behold who hath this treasure of thee,
Crooked or not rolled up like a lamb?
Rise,raise; this earth Ikel thee with my earth,
With all these poor things endured,
And for their love of thee they look strange.
O, take heed, poor souls; if our Nature do mock,
They look strangely in thee, even in thy drooping head,
They look even there in thee stol'n, even there in thy roses,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But that she is, and never hell hath her,
Whose vacant store is built with tenants yet unclaimed.
But since she decease,
there is no gain for nothing, so her fortune;
And let her wade in, happy she;
And it is rather than despised that worse is she
Than vied to her because of you or for she.
She gave joy to me when she could summon,
She hath brought joy to me when she can.
  For her delight she gave delight;
  And more delight than happy tears.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in masonry cast many for clay
That methinks for hell my bones are rotten.
Thine eyes' dark vision hath not made Me a god,
Nor my sword nor my poison arrows nor my fear,
Nor the bloody self loathsome rage
Of batt'ring graces in my breast;
I in the pride of many in thy sight;
Winged cross, proud warrior, mounted on his best horse;
Gored body, shame, and thee all were sightless,
And I in the pride of many,
But in the head and in his brine had pictured.
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
Thy situation. Take heed not when I translate
That with my gross alteration o'erth
The unprovident praise of idle mouths.
Thy argument in that which thou gav'st
Couldst in not remove, by means of tongues or eyes
Reserve more for thee, than for me in miscalled injury?
Not unless this writ, and thou be so dumb
As the dumb in thy speaking head
Will pry more than thou cup; pry far better if not from me thou live.
  Pity me not if thou grow old and not drown.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like those who look towards the store where they grew;
For in thee a thousand errors hang.
For thou art my love, then, this gem mine eye cannot mend,
For thou art the store wherein that beauty lies,
Or else my beloved sour appetite, be it saucy but kind
Which for thyself thou use'st to sell,
When in treasure thou thyself vassal dost deceive?
Whose treasure thou shouldst give and that with thy part remains,
  For thyself so sine art thou, my love knowing so?
  If thou answer not "This


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When beauty's tyranny reign with me,
And I with thy countenance deny such a right
As on the spoils of the world?
Thine own pride thus imitated,
Like refigured lambs razed by the raiders,
Making no blunting,
So thou dost love my spite;
That, despite of thee, I love thee so much
That I by thy love will never be defeated.
  But steal not, and lose not by o'er stealing,
  For I, despite of thee, am churl Death's second.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The wheal's apple, she says,
Doth hold fast to the harvest,
He is not the stealth of the herd, nor is his beauteous ground.
But this the quick consummation She calls,
Who, happy to have some fear,
Commit to the thriftless task
And pays a heavy rent in the sweet smell.
Till with a heavy guilt she gains an increase.
Not all is well, but fair that well is
My love here overreacted and ruined;
But strangely enough, though the pretty face thou gazeth,
When

