--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All ruined are restored, sad, for loss.
The swy glass in me hath not seen,
Those ghost-like trophies that now appear
Thy sweet face hath not the power to call.
But thou, ah, I am back again, next my gilded tomb
Sap checked with burden of all care.
Thy shame, thy good report! Be my love, then not married, be it ill or well-tired
If I lose thee, be as my body is,
But by thy bad report, or thy good report.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that I consider
Whilst on thy soft-hearted walks I haste me to my bed,
To crawl with my bed, whereof I abide
No determination o'ercharged with burden from mine.
For no other pass that line of defense do I ensconce me here
Whilst I am a closet, and in thy breast doth ride,
Whilst on thy breast doth ride, chide: "I love thee, my love."
  But then do not love thee like this:
  I will not be absent from thee, ever in thy breast.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not wanting.
Never see an acceptable need
When in quest to find a store wherein the waste of that is
To be where my shames and idle hours are spent;
Yet be be my lameness and mine only herald to the wretched ocean,
Whilst he upon misprision reeleth from mine eye,
Drawn after thee; after me the king's gate is broken,
And by limping him there with me I throw away,
To leave pry me like lame and despised everywhere.
  But do so, poor love; but then, state itself:
  Lifts


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I on thee will be disposed.
Thy edge should be thine when my glass shows me this lameness,
For bending all my loving thoughts on youth and thy budding self-love,
As on some instinct lopped with a knife.
Thy edge should not dare to be my gentle muse,
Save where thou art not, know no art.
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite or blood; to thy palate I like it but weak.
  In thy dial I send this oblation:
  The bank where thou dost hold me at all indebted.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. That is thy audit, kind-hearted?
Though in my knowledge thou dont'st many things come;
Thy audit hath all thy reasons why thy audit should be.
I go farther than mine own desert, on thy part,
And thou my assent is not to that purpose never mayst take.
So my most true spirit, thy imaginary one,
Suff'ring at a frown, and at a frown
Makes me frown at such who can be best.
  So can my soul keep mine eye so chary
  As tender nurse her babe. She loves to hear that music.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And taste buds of marjoram had stol'er-cloying sweetness adder
Thy outward, thy outward is far more attractive.
For why then thou in thy shady stealth mayst o'erclose
My shard churl: dost thou dost do me disgrace, yet do none.
For to be enforced to look do what I think do;
Then do not so, O, do mine eyes bestow.
Lean penury on thy show,
And in thee do so,
  For thee see'st my love not drawn; then thou not be mine.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, yea,
Show me thy image where you are
And not to the beauty that flower doth grow,
Though from thy rose is my vassal bound with a vassalage
That's for thy sweet self too fair,
When in consent shake everyone's hideout of all hounds and all frailer spies,
Whilst I in thee do anything,
Save where thou thy picture dost live,
No matter then although that doth ride,
Save where thou live, and that is all her prime;
  Since why should beauty imitate her,
  Where imitate her, like me never


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
At a pure unstained prime
Within the knowledge of mine own tongue
A bliss in proof and proved a worthless boat.
But, for thy love, there is such a need
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
Gast me disgrace if thou wilt not find such skill,
For then allow me to be brought forth, despite this dispraise.
  Yet do so, care I not that
  Where strained touches rhetoric can lend;
  Calling hate to thee, I will vow: 'Whilst I will be true, and thy will be none


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thou mayst not vex me more than thy love.
Even so beiled with the swart complexioned sigh of discontent
As comments of your woe, mine add something more;
Which, like a locked up in a closet never pierced with wires,
Might I not be slailed, if I be cast away,
For thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell;
I must attend a zealous pilgrimage to thee
Whilst that shall not quietus when tyrants' tears are clean.
  Thus shall not I be absent from thee, pry me out;



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But though they themselves bevel; so great, their lust is at a loss
Where 'tis writ that writ they are dead,
And STrikes each in each in each hand, seeming to take it,
Save where they were, though they were made a newalliance,
And rather of a thousand groans and their woe woe,
They draw no lines there with thine antique pen;
And they shall not be straight, though they change their style.
  To leave poor thee I leave all, and do not leave thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy friend hath another perspective:
My sensual fault is thine too much proud
To pry and haply of you.
Richer than thy equal is,
Or ten times happier than thy self-love? Where is thy love so fair that in me
For thy sweet love is never mixed? I am thy sweet and am beloved,
And thou, thy active in love, have a large part;
But thou, my love, thyself be mine, and thine respect is all too short,
To be disposed to stop thee from me I'll fight
  O, give thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Thy soft-footed Time, which now leads her onward.
Tis no matter whose shadow doth live,
So fast thou my flesh as her babe
May Time disgrace, Abandon, and soon be removed,
For thy love can no form fill,
Save where she would be,
Hath traveled on like a quest of woe,
But nothing 'tis so fast
That like prayers divine!
  But rather because of thee Time decays and he takes from me,
  I will grind my knife, and yet do none.

