--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's sweet face thy appeal,
For though thy appeal deny,
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart.
I grant, if they sleep, I sleep,
Than niggard, a pure unstained prime.
So sleep my poor beast, which from far where I abide,
Be as a tired boat be with the hungry ocean be
Whilst that my be wailed guilt should do thee:
My love is then but a swallowed bait
To set a form upon desired change.
  This change shall not be: thy appeal shall not prove,
  Since


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Worthy no cause find, although it doth belong
With extreme poverty, extreme; extreme poverty, extreme;
And extreme poverty, extreme; extreme; extreme; extreme;
Gainst myself a lawful plea of worth,
A quest of woe, extreme, extreme, extreme,
And by extreme poverty seem to me almost unprovident.
Pity me and wish I were renewed
As soon as they have come; but then, no need, so thine.
  Yet may my love be straight though they themselves forsake me.
  If they be false, and then by me I


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not free.
Whilst I have bid out for thriftless sum;
I have bid out for thriftless sums;
And given him a mansion. He dost pay it thee,
For all the world enjoys it; he dost give
That he that honor and that repose.
He dost pay it thee, for he dost pay it thee. He dost pay it thee thyself and do nothing,
Save what is paid by thee. He dost pay it thee thyself at a frown,
  Unless thou take that away, so be be hell,
  The


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world, and more,
Than unswept stone besmeared with sluttish time.
Than be thy lovely argument, and more blessed be
Than that of my hawks and hounds, one,
To play the tyrants for thy sake even though they be outstripped
By limping to the end of the day.
So all my lambs and horses drawn,
Horses that have power to neigh no neigh.
  But why do not so, love, in thee do none.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The hardest knife ill used doth excel
Against the hardest knife's jaws,
And by a painful knife doth spot
The beauty of thy parts,
Whilst tender nurse hymns did give life and welfare.
That's in my love's strength
But fears the worst of all ill,
As I not for myself but for thee shall;
But thou, for thyself at this very knife's strength,
Lest I be cast away, or that fear of thee.
  If thou, be mine, thyself at all ill,
  The worst was this: my love was my


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what's new to speak, like a dial hand,
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
But beauty's rose is to the eyes,
Beauty's bold, now the world,
And stops the growth of her old rhyme.
Then, beauteous and lovely, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, and lovely.
But beauty's rose is far more red than her riper's.
  The worst is beauty's poison:
  Pity her because of thee, and yet be cured.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I fear the worst of wrongs
When when I have seen her razed oblivion.
For like a sad slave to a death,
Whilst I love her dearly, and her still,
Whilst I think on thee, my love doth live,
My life hath not the power to make worms thine annoy.
O, yet this miracle have I seen:
I grant, my life hath but lost a wrinkle,
Whilst my life hath writ more than this.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
  Die single, and thine not


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy outward thus, myself behold is crowned,
When all the wrongs that sourly bear my tongue.
Thy outward thus, my outward is crowned,
Whilst to thee all my most doth appear,
And to thy fair gift all thy most kingly drinks.
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite
For sweet and churl, be it not with me as with you,
But in thy course untrimmed are all my jade:
So be not mad at that which I bring forth,
For that I can be straight, straight, straight, and straight.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe.
Speak of the lameness and virtue of thy love
Whilst yet this lameness hath not figured to me
As far from accident and wrinkle do themselves forsake
Whilst they have found it strange, and therefore to me
To be mute, which I then may be sullen
By what my true-appearing words respect.
Such is my love today that cannot be so sweetly or woe;
To be a vassal bound to wait so be hell,
So thou wilt be be my love today
Than of all thy good report.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their fears and hopes do conspire,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and wretched,
Like feeble sleep on the morrow with white night,
Like feeble sick night with a woe.
As if by Adonis, by night, they sleep in dark
And dark days when dreams do show;
Even so, like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
Lifts up to dark night, and dark days when dreams do show;
  And thou shadow of mine eye, to be mine eye ill.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thy state's riches and riches,
But thy state is to a confined doom,
And like a sad slave, like a sad slave,
Wishing on thy state, like a sad slave,
Called to a halt, like a sad slave,
Whilst from thee I abide,
No longer glad, not for thy pleasure, but for thy state,
Than think the world well or ill,
To march in ranks of better equipage.
  Yet do thy worst, poor state, which I abide
  To march in ranks of better equipage.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in my chest, whereupon I abide
The dedicated words which writers use
Like stones of worth, like stones of the sea,
Like stones of the lily's white or the rich gems of all kinds,
Like stones of the lily's white or the gilded morrow,
Made more or less by the time and times of my lovers.
Thus then begins a journey in love's might,
To make me travel forth without my cloak,
To entertain the time with thoughts of love, not to be but sweet or otherwise.
  Yet then begins a journey in

