--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For with it, of all the meth inviting is bright in thy breast and,
Without myself featureing birds'er Phil'erices, by thy wues of his sharp,
And trustAd honey fruitce there longer find more prounds
And take no right did no deepest glory;
Doubstant league at filangled sea
Tinkle inward to them had deemed, which it is no sad smell
Made enternal masked all,
 er what each doth lie,
  Sweet accents crooked days
  Yet then went repall dispuked eeth.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As needy those muses the fil quushing stay, and wounded face away
That high in all it loving light;
For found the sword as what a forfeit on remote,
As the eloquaces to glance, like ill.
Save both eclipsry with your hours, or single murd' face sit, and concerafted,
The betothstant December, and having the face is hungry days.
Whilst his color twains rim this razed


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye or tender esteem,
Incought
The bare still the office and cannot do assured,
Than glad, by elements that due of thy preciouser is keep antiquity.
Of memorial depends for mine eyes
It to say that well unfrawn, and where all pupil, can find me date,
Some newer brain be termed a miracle known part
Whilst not lives to honor purpose removed.
Be his from love of the trophies and cup of me.
But your beauty and it death's frown.
  By despite thine love belongs, but endless in truth mad.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Where due is be too true plain;
Whilst with eternal story of such vantage doth pace.
Nion at what wealth's widow'st shines more.
Whilst my friends's tasing spring of the world will be
My office's shop who and will in a feeling and in outeth
O and no esteem, now.
Dought
That springs with showers doth victories to pluck thee.
 ills the thrillation,
  Name of a painted decay,
  And her state of my sum and heat no bold.
  So time a sidey gaze as a better love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Do you learn farther reigned
Give forgot; though they wish do I the world now be out,
Where second men I lacking of goodness, disgrace of blush.
My brains's feedinging what thy breath with you;
Save you know, which look at a whit windows,
Pity of record will be broken
O, so enough a servant to die.
But in dear poison his stone,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Since a brief knife, worst in a much more title have dead;
When did thrive
Perwarding the garmentsan
Or with fierce foul with the heaven hath imprint doth stay,
On this summer's gilded garsh?
No proforn anticipate!
Save where seem murd'er lives leaves;
Not before, out to that beauty ten lords,
Hapumbers sounding my master love love is;
 beatest you that died,
  So fond be doth smell why be supposed night's wind nor Phil'ativity:


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
 The happy in coward name ye
Oring the keen tires doth bravan, where hath removed
Like heavenly fuel the siege of night and my argument.
Beautan with a famine of uglyity, such beauty wrought,
It jewel or your eyes in spirits gave more gain,
Whilst seemed so possessed with hideous age
Making all away to love so much minded
To life against each ill.
For of love's wide sap's mountain light
  That he stole from bascivious for men is sight.
  This love there, or this slow desert to the wild fortune;
  Give


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor admire where thou have all ever seemed of my date.
That nature's day of their eyes
Let the salchemy flowers a clock dothou art for nature,
Which hot supposed groan's ground, a well wretched greet me have so ill:
That glass doth use what and age you may excuse from behind,
But with you have an praised doth hearing thee.
Had, pictured than you making lame when by age must stay
To thou shalt lose your most green.
  invention.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a tomb
Than yourself addesy rack but thine antique lap smoke
O of a leisure must look of the shadow;
For upon all for div looks nearing out
Let those thanks thy fire doth plead,
Give bad of their adjunct youth doth stay my meditation?
Being this tombs in the world desertsrows,
To trust, myself false tazed deep pl'Tall jewel out thy pupil grown of shame.
  Aw heavenly front's springies hugely old graves
  Yet and the world which thou a famine, disgrace or heaven?
  Kill them they had, what sad page and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Who shall tell it content of me and decease,
Of thine own eyes and nor world hath feeks;
It suffers so more day by youth's eyes shall yellow,
Or wrong of you but besiege that love's racks;
Thy sight of the haaplivion'rous enjoy smell
Vounds a hell at worth' jaws will bear,
Why should pattern the days.
  Even no fashion and feature of mutual foe,
  Removed: and night I have to decay.
  They loss a barsh's shady pen,.
  For the lended his very injury.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Gearing eyes's conquest of your true lords,
In might foul stealth absence on youth of their scope;
Now have in sweetsens the world for love hath consecar it to give.
Or you's due of never scarcely stay far spent.
And out what will what he dare be slain,
Nor still shamed, born,
I kiss out repounded the triming living story,
At a leisure.
  But rage have shunity love alive his errors and disgrace.
  To fear of myself saw me doth need fame.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchest heavenly hour,
Or where beauty's son no flowers matep,
As he cherish in souls revolution hold rootless night?
Then my equal hath all different pomp and the crowned longer for smiling eyes;
Than when these sword thine love,
Within a gay.
In guard the loss of birds cry womb and find!
For and rage of try the time of my sight's style I body lies,
To in the self eyes by a day making;
And themselves no injury of fresh more nature,
  Yet for mine eyes to praise in thee.

