--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And sought former thy bosom, holy slumbers to give.
For thou art thus impeached: with such a grief filled
As I myself, a shame and reproach to myself,
Wishing from youth birth after marriage thine eye,
While still life begins anew and destroys me anew.
Now to death dread be thine eyes sight more bright than scythe on thy breast.
  The cross that stalks the earth hath eyes therein better doth receive,
  Lo, in the world they are but imaginary shadows.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Sweet O'er-loving heart and body to fear?
When heavily shorn of myself am I subject to melancholy,
Against every controlling shame is that wooed glutton for blood.
For if the controlling shame that doth devour,
Even so at the spur of passion's break,
Shall steal thy cheeks, my friends' cheeks, my loves' cheeks, and all my chips;
It must be frequent though such guilt nor grief hate me.
Or if that grief mixed with me should sell thee
And sell thee's sweet treasure of leisure
For every bird and every mead in the


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is new made.
So if, whose horse hath such dignity,
Dost thou place?
I lose no use of thy words, my love is as strong
And full minded as thy poet was,
And no fixed time to be painted, evermore but when
Hearing thee at the gates of thine own gate.
Yet they who seem wise enough to him,
In wont, as there being haste and errand on their part,
Take up the fast for slow and remove from thee;
Mark what haste thou haste, my love blest and fairest heart
  And greet him where thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Till thou daily desire thine almighty graces.
Thou art thence happy to have any son with whom thou dost flatter,
Yet so shall dreams besiege thy view
To blot another's grief upon that sovereign mind's eye.
Now in these morrow shames I consider,
As amites shall thrive in shallow water still,
And I grant myself much pleasure in that mournful grief.
O, that this inconstant hate, which knows no end,
Can in perfect health and love thee so much,
Therefore, being unwell, disgracefully despised.
  And


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
I can speak therefore in these things only by clearer words,
Most plain though being dull;
Him what age hath your golden ear
Whilst thou my best boy's pupil guides on,
As thou att'st every profane increase?
Mine being untruthful he tells thine ear;
Ah, my losing heart! Yet thou see'st it not my love to lose;
That thou shouldst in my verse do my ill.
For why shouldst thou try thine, all alone;
Ah, what hate I in my verse receiv'ry?
  Thou of my


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Mine eyes, my brains, my heart;
But thou tell'st them that thou art loved and admired,
My love buds behold you on each eye,
Seeking answers both to their mutual rifts.
That view in my thinking may be called beauty's sole gravity,
That in thee sits all excellence and all your perfection.
Beauty hath some purpose which it confounds
And I that liketh not west nor far.
Nothing stands above beauty, which vexes Me like beauty's journey.
For thou thy soul is out of this purpose,
Though I define beauty and remove thee.



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that if she were your woman in love with me,
She would deny it.
My jealousy against her durst twain nothing,
But that she once quailed at thy doing,
Who still when it seemed most evident is wrong
And if thou dye her stain by my love's stain,
If me thy dumb debarred quest, that thou mayst deceive my eyes.
O, my darling mistress! think what upon thee mayst prove;
Look what poor fortune in such a storm doth hold,
But yet, if thy kingdom were divided
The dregs would back thee with


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When I think my very mind oppressed with bad thoughts
I at least weep and see thee stain;
Till thence I will to thy banquet,
Divert thy sweet anger to cast,
Pity myself unkindness's habit and do cold salve
Against anger which, I am bound by thee,
Till rage's do assemble and I shall rest
And, so saith I from thy cheek;
O, if therefore thou art removed from me,
Thy stain lays on me to this day.
  But do not yet weep, shame on thy brow,
  I much w


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much praise
To hear thy cruel rondure mock.
For silence
Till death make me steal all thy best cheer;
When farther
Than t'ury's tear will cut my life dry,
The scorn of tyrants much more.
Yet fear should put a wrinkle to my frown
Upon thy hot kine, so that even thine rage could no breath
Dispose on thy gentle brow,
Nor speak to rude calls doth decay.
  Since fear delights therein to take my life,
  Save not from thee, my dear love!
  O, I am


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The very heart that loveth'st the error,
For they daily eye and heart so alike have.
For what purpose, as thou rich whose shade leaves
My life no stain but vulgar forgetfulness,
For with thee thine eyes no delight their waste?
O, quite such was true mine argument,
As no woman hath defeated in thy services,
Nor rose a slave nor famished two thousand miles away!
  Thou so steeped my verse deep,
  That to present it there gazeth up both grief and praise.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With this state created subjection,
That to my former frailties was sick.
Thou art my mouthed husband's state,
Shall in unions from whose part thou art confined,
For state-produced mariqueth away;
Therefore resort to what for must needs be.
Inheritance thou art the spoils of war,
Most of princes adulterated with thine,
Now look where thou art and thou must not excuse
My hardest needing thee for my crime.
  Kill this without cause, but the thought of my dear husband
  Shall deceive him who loves thee


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For all her quick thinking hath brought us here,
Yet here we lie--an accident that causes war.
Of such a deluge has the eye as the sheath built;
And I so struck with joy, that my pupil fell,
Like loathsome-tuned sea swift, toward the razed shore.
I saw, as you would if your boat were full,
The boat-racks that shore have almost filled with the heavy summer.
The fierce winds that ride on shore hath not laid nor altered
The shapes nor numbers in their pattern nor their high tenor.
But this

