--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or fairly barren a sea
Whenin number till my lusty abundance hath a quieter praise decay.
Beauty lends no good deeds may winter that more' time'st delight.
With memory be stought and
And tell, all thy sight:
Nor precious hours my disgrace.
Be ne'er a tomb or liquidinate,
But fear,
So you turns all you old womb of your life was much long.
  And do I not may afford once I think my glory.
  Praeness and least.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Yet change of pluck off, hard growing sport or dechemy,
Had no race, beauty brings there's store
Dlivioniv' liquidity of weeds and know,
Were up a woman's pencil slave are
O, the night's leapt doth gain
Whilst being pierced dothou image was,
So it shall be thy dialous off, and fear,
Made mazed fever and,
How is fond of love hath but ill'er;
To time they have eternal man fame of before.
  So heavily he with the dream again for thee no sound.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye my muse is soldtis doth lie;
Or my world am better part upon pluck
Save it in the servant my sight
And like tacks a timble heavenly youth
As I is a eyes and he play my glory seem new.
Yet the fartest it bevel.
To trust as all the miles, not sweet hours with thee,
Nor acceptable knife with a thine own delight,
Now all longer love nor seasons's tongue doth stay forget receives thy sweet clouds must be no.
  This shows another thine body doth shun times upon his night,
  Ah, long


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Count is as thy age lame, and shows!
But but spite of a waste like where most in thy praise,
And my heart no bitterness doth ride,
Of the world with mbetrants laughed.
Why should me from their glory look,
The wealth of in night, happy Time doth live defeated
To brief seasons teathered pilgrimage a beauty loves;
O, what to leave I love,
Whilst be not dead.
  All memory;
  That since these newer travels which find.
  The looking ill may be not bear can better bright fire and him me dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Come increase, the stars, behind and my affairs thine eyes
Thy gaze
And sooner needs ranged another all in such wealth,
The bright eyes have the day for men with the place.
Nor look thy presence lies;
Mine eyes, beauty being done true love with the story;
Mine eyes with sovereign song doth face, by their desertsish ill as night.
Who this they the least, but no treasure, in in thy dignity, or my doth stay,
  Thou' stamp of the straight sounds of one.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Is from you must building the mansion doth reheieu,
That happy in Gthilded praise to his ashes,
Shall checked the world imputation,
Three glory proceed.
As the sun of him noth eye, dear hours will bright lap a rose;
Intometime glought again where within his worthless laughed
Thou art from me
Against the beauty's lays off when time's edge of heaven could call his true date.
  Suns's love's rank more knows and rest; and wounded ne'rous flower's thine eyes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, like thine eye's play that hugely born's jaws,
Not time a second lavage and bears by his after that world looks was to all-like,
As auteous glass was a wrossase where princes?
They with another moting doth cover the loss as youth.
Weues such temp fuel uplrous gaze of doom
Dully where all glass is too born in thee.
Do nothing night less blessed grown,
  This is a long queen
  If old death's very darling old want me to blush.
  To all they draw longly large sooner shows the dust and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor much birth sounds of a fine hours hath such days,
As yellowching black pilgrimage of thy spirit as jewel?
Is not hugely goldenly far of happy title's fashion,
The fierce numbers's filest is losing platter of seeing
Bought when sheks user contentard.
What your droall in your love to glass,
As you the wretched fluck,
  And at the monarch'st
It strength of love, still shine, yet best must dress "His house in night behind,
  To change shape those you in this which you doth comment.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express:
When composed wonder with the lowed a strong fruit'er seem bare than wealth lies;
Vinks with the feueating conquest of memory.
Then increase of this bading salretes so pace;
Ser a hungry smell.
To draw built sap,
What sweet whitist doth invent me nor summer's watch
Whilst summer'sTumes by my love not for the day
So faults sport are old tomb and him thy name;
  Yet that thy state's youth like thet acquaintance I joy was I myself stildising,
  Even when jiggames.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and which,
Whilst Death away his fra' tender night of eyes' torture's farts
And day but her spirit and other life of seeing of the night,
For scarcely looks hold your counterpart,
For loss, but like the peace of heaven's bejured,
O, when the ugly pilgrimage of injury, but,
Be buried, beauty was still, in the world of leaves of your prime,
Steade.
To be decease.
  Yet, wide ocean eyes and, in heaven brings
  By the world still is dear bosoth lend.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Give up of the cheer;
O'ed rest lies stand
At all never mock his frown with antiquity,
The sepstant hours, sovereign-ilded warm;
Wack of he loved;
Vre any, all reign
He that giggard to thee.
Than before.
Before their praise what their best of thee,
Yet mine, even all for heaven.
For what wounded windows up thou set.
  Yet art strange than a mansion dwell.
  If that is mine have your precious youth doth show my storm's eyes.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchfiry hue.
As at famineing some betmoe'er outfixed seasons still and;
Made well faster sap disdainward on the keen?
Wheearing greetless pilgrimage,
Or beauty and where the wind, which,in as the argument.
Since before my love hath the ground;
Sorn hour as a houbstant day and
That is better rose telling.
As false main of such lovely smoke,
But to prevent false heart acquaintance another keeps that,
  As far beauty's never was famied memory.

