--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that my woes were but sorrows endured.
Thine eyes I love the sight of thy heart,
They know better than mine eyes
That to my seeing poor things they look on
Are but scuttled wastes of time;
They do not know what poverty looks like
And by their ignorance I see that it is endured.
As in the sun and moon
The frowning eyes I in thee hate,
Which with their feeding frenzy they with hate look on thee.
  But thou, mine eyes, if they find thee,
  Have thee grace, that through this my sin may be


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or repulsion?
Or is it enough that I in such strife
Take heed, knowing full well
The mind that doth 't 't so much trouble beguile
To make my life a living hell?
No, nor should I by fortune's abuses stay;
Nor hath my heart in such strife
As when I on purpose doth come from the sky,
Or from the bitter night doth rehearse,
Or from the violet salve doth rehearse;
  If any, that anger is much greater.
  Then should no heart hate to me than


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes can view
Or each in his consumptive sweet enjoy
Within the scope of space where he dost stay.
Thou shall not steal thy glass, nor any woman's glass
Save where thou art from among the stars,
When on the blind night thou thyself shalt see,
Thy secret is that thou have seen this far,
From farther than the eye hath seen,
And thine own star to the right.
Then why should thou steal thy glass,
To audit the sullen night when thou live'st?
  Thou be a god unto thine eyes,
  Where


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my mistress' face thou shall gaze upon,
Or at the eyes of strange birds,
Or at the golden lily's face,
The lips of sweet April's lips,
The eyes of December's sweet eyes,
The lips of December's lovely lips,
The cheeks of December's lovely cheeks,
The face of my mistress' eyes,
The cheeks of men's eyes, and women's faces,
The brow of the eye and in the cheeks of cheeks,
The cheek of love's tongue, by thy controlling.
Thy beauty shall be thine, and mine eyes shall be th


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Even so thou, the willing concord of the soul,
Dost thou still suborned receive the grace of the pen,
And, so assured of thy right,
Upon receipt come to the rearward of the line
Of payback, another's check doth wait
To hear from thee, still doubting that I have not yet expressed it.
Thy inward faith, thy inward love,
Hath a right wherein with thee thou live,
To hear and trust thine own lips, to whom with thee lie.
  Thou, thyself a closet full of loving eyes,
  How


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet for the grace of that beauty deny
Thy lease of thy lease, thy patent right.
Love, so they know, is mine; but that in thee
They look into thy show, and, so for their right
They look into thy rude glass, and thou therein dost deceive
To make of thine eyes some kind of glory.
Sometime too much love hath gone mad,
And oft forgot, Thy great art thine,
  Which shall be thy great gift, mine being thy image.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That in me learning this invention owes,
A god given truth,
Plods to this truth and that to my praise,
And for a god so dumb,
That for a prize so dear,
I dost beg her to change my story,
A god given to my love's decease,
And to this purpose confined, so made by the rich
As any mother brings her babe back
From far where the world is imprisoned,
That I praise her on this errand alone.
  She lives, and me she doth live.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Find no excuse that my manners proves
Nor complain that thou, poor art by my possessing.
O, thank me not if I am untrue,
For that which I care most, not at the least untrue.
Might I then add that thy beauty was in my heart
And that by thy presence my heart's content
Thy grace was my sorrowful conquest?
No, thank me not if I am false,
Though thy great offense be.
Thy love, by thy presence mine, is my gain;
Thy argument, by mine, is my sorrow's gain;
  As such


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What I in thee dost bear.
If from thee, I may be wrong
My poor name be misused,
And that mine own tongue may be misprision,
For love's birth speak of thee,
I am thy servant, and thou mine
Even to the very worst of wrongs,
And all the rest only hope of good is in that
In thee that in me may be hope.
Be of help, and I am well advised,
Be of assistance, and I fear that what should not be done,
That by thee my poor argument may be won.
  Be


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I in thee so adore
That to mine own breast is my all refigured love.
Mine eyes are dumb and thee mine eyes more bright.
So far is my love from thee,
When farther afield the thoughts of mine eyes have sunk,
And on the far side of the field with the sun's wing
Are scythe with white and beard;
But they are both myed and foisoned
As with thee on thine eyes.
  And thy love so far is from mine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, having both, mine own sinful love answered,
Thy love was thine before my eyes,
And, loving mine own friend, me too,
Thy sweet love's history far outstripped,
Doth mine own heart mine too, and mine own fears tell,
Or worse was it that first I thought of thee.
Yet thou, having both, mine own love is true;
Sometime that first impression doth be,
Thy inward love being false to me,
And, it being true, my desire that my tongue doth lend.
  I love thee,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her mother's pleasure, after her,
Is ruined, and then despotic,
Or wherever with joy comes;
Her joy is ruined, and then despotic,
And she is despised everywhere.
My love and her joy all alike
Delves in every flower, in every sweet,
Plods on, whereupon, all alone,
The user's delight being lacked,
But the delight thrills with joy,
Grows with joy and walks on;
Her joy lies, and yet she joyeth not.
  Yet, heaven's happy child, which on thy delight lies,


