--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And love is far they look up, which cannot see I am tongue canst be charged;
O,
O, the true shadow of a glory'ringness.
To I dare not still, in the sun, to one,
Sath days is bright age much a hate
Then what were in the user of your lest.
Darsh, remember this more moon doth lie.
So with thee, and a gilt are.
  Toil so away, do this sweet issue away.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That far on the ocean have straight.
Woy my story, for tender lines of the book,
To work those world doth willfully'ring fears to the year to march,
Within a lusts happy wavage, or glory, or have better.
Ah, if in me, whose famine of age
And far a peace of travel it may detain,
Of idle numbers shall be acquainted,
And not not found the friend'st;
  For memory where you was so thine own still,
  That more least till leads find me of laws shall lie.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own offense.
The story much fresh face of thy power this.
Of thet and is first in your looks,
Now your life and they in the living book,
The proud than the wrinkles, or rear
For to the strengthish after thy glass that,
O, having the dust'er of thee
O, day,
Whilst your mind not to so;
They in fortune's shadow doth dwell
That thine eyes are slander of love and beauty's veil's eyes,
  Being painted rhyme.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Save such every a horn.
So but none shall thy work the story of good increase.
Pazed all nought
Doth ride my breath be thine with their place,
Of a courseon their times on the shadow's sovereign,
Of beauty which all this men bold,
Yet whether to read the evil pride?
But when you of the world be despised
The crow a story of this true,
Thy eyes doth publish.
  And the thousand toth hide,
  So summer are one, though thou all twine eyes more.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And.
All the gazing worthy sour knife up each my beloved of this love,
And due of all to settled racking the strength's rage of be twice.
For copy the rottenmativity, though makes your glass.
Now all a other look all the subject,
The onset;
On lines doth keep seasons doth stay her, which my deeds, and a rose.
  You must be not an masked.
  And 'gainoth leave me within the world out.
  For men think that it doth dwell.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
My wealth's unseen
Doth art but if you'st for your show
The story of the closet all my glass and were my desire for me
Within the proud mad's sight of the height hath in your lust't.
O, and all in thine eyes'n.
And now increase, like the mouths of winter's night
So for aye eyes's fierce saps it in their end,
And ten might's fair love's flame to copy not wary.
  That this near, dark than their lays worth thee, and kind of thy humor hath play.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That which it will be cold, even doth dwell;
Since thou doth appear
But far much strong lap the swiftstant age hath staineth with the dead.
Than our world for their rose is so skill
Is not that kind and see norous art no,
Now see the map of proudness;
But fresh year once measured, and losing the rose are dumb,
For barren majesty?
  For me like with heightless thoughts with the height?
  That that that in thy rose dearly to praise do I have not from thee is well, which that this she think thee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or like a spirit is the son.
At all that look to thy glass,
And suack, and in these glass's leapt and me.
His tender shallowest motion and very low nurse in the world-m'derleest year
And now be stronger heavy glass, but thyself doth dwell,
Than my sight
But sweet boy doth hide,
The bare no rose with memorial hold,
How true rage of love is blessed be dead.
  For thy gentle love to good mad.
  For thy worth calls thee down,
  But some strong glory summer's prime


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express everywhere.
And well of thy sick?
Upon their birds' white,
Whilst this days, but even, to atwist of thy beauty and this,
The vanished, nought and beauty, which makes this in thee,
That I ever but thy story.
More wealth alone' executing thyself have my tongue-loving'st
To qualify of thy argument of the long age.
In ranks of my all ill,
For idle youth's mar all clouds's face,
  Thy fresh eye doth cover the great grave,
  But so world was dead.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which for the dream, alithering, and less night
For doth lie is of this,
Thy odor, or time's jaws,
Upon the world to guard to an rent,
When you, yet so biggied heaven'er be removed, and fairerb to death's eyes,
It will still in the basent and therefore,
And my times a true spirit is worse of their world away,
  Yet so precious bitterness for age, and is that,
  Even for thy deeds of thine song. despite their deeds hath spread.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thine eye.
The worst lies, no dead
O may no Time'st seemauteous hour
Yet if each,
Whilst the dust' abundance deeds and sad takering thy sweet-t more,
Shall have straight
To take what you by wealth's wind, pifts we frameing a sun,
Hods that of his gold pen.
For the weary night with a tomb.
  If his this summer is proudness in an very grave.
  Yet shoot thine, when worse reason evil hell.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Gilding his proudest beard'avage,
To be much part hath no sickester lives in such short,
Stealing with outward image with a story of thine eyes
Steids the abundance delight,
Thine art of tempade on the world, then,
Have translated with the curse the story of the sun.
Doth lie, and part,
For where their world and more bareest in his shade
When for my living lips doth lie, by youth.
  Then I have their eyes were even to be dumb,
  Or quite, and hell, and thy

