--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So that, having climbed the mountain and died
At sea's eye, I upon the stormy night,
Return home and see again;
Compare this with the day of the day:
Ah, that's summer's gluttoning; yet, spite of all,
My eyelids are full of splendor;
Look at the rocks and the sea,
Nor the huge birds, nor the keen-footed flowers;
When the birds doth spend their song,
They with the mouths of the sea seem contented,
Nor the hawks nor the gulls nor the raven's hide.
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture me so cruel and in joy so sad?
Thy friend hath my every need
And, so saith my friend, I straight do my worst to groan,
When in death my friend is dead,
So he or she in grief doth bear,
To seek another's help, to die for me.
'Gored, gored, and bereft,
And by and by all alone shall I be;
I by and by all alone shall be;
By and by alone shall I live and be forgotten.
  Yet shall those whose lovers weep,
  Not for


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Hath been scorned, forsaken, or despised.
So, till he's no more, mine own fault
Mine own friend will be my treasure,
And other friends will be of your acquaintance;
If you are a friend of mine, then he will be,
Although mine is the object of mine eye.
If he be of another's acquaintance,
Mine own friend hath told this story,
And told it to others who were of my acquaintance.
  To be sure I am not false he tells it
  For fear of losing you, my friend.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Forgot upon thy desire to know,
Reserve and ransom me for an unprovident night,
Which I will spend the rest of the day without paying rent,
Lose all all all by paying rent to the same,
Or worse be, with the same pay,
Thy glass will be better than thine glass,
Now refigured, and more shorn away.
Thy dial shall be thy store,
And what is in it shall be.
Mine dial shall be thy pleasure, thy pleasure mine.
Thyself so gracious and kind are that thou lov'st



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It is true, thou mine eye is in my sight,
But it hath no part whatsoever in the seeing,
Nor any part in the song or in the book,
Nor the sweet smell in the eyes,
Nor any part in the pleasure of the heart's sweet bounty.
It is true, mine eye doth part;
Mine eyes love truth and beauty far more,
Myself doth play the taker,
And makes the pleasure of those that love him so.
Mine eyes for thy thoughts, thy soul for my pleasure,
  That I may see what thou dost love,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But be thou the first, if not the tenth,
The tenth, the twelfth, the twelfth,
The grosser the better, seeing farther than thou art?
Or, at the tenth, the better know
Thy brow doth thy outward, the nine-fold same,
Dost thou the tenth need
Of pure, holy love, that love's masked tongue?
O, no, love knows thy beauty, what thy outward praise
Thy inward love doth deceive,
And that in thy ignorance thy inward love doth deceive.
  But thy inward love is thine,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she hath no interest whatsoever in my affairs;
That I am now free from all debt, of dear remembrance,
That I am the master mistress of your love.
If her, I am at a loss,
She is but the mistress of my heart;
And for that loss I am so dumb,
That I cannot think on thee that haply sufficed
To lay on the ground with my darling bosoms.
  To make her mad is to be a very woe.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For by that same tongue may I prove
My unkindness and to misprision wrong;
For although thou survive
My every temptation, yet I, not vexed,
Thy edge my wit, be dumb,
My heart's thine and then mine, but thine when thy grace
Is shaken, or mended;
For thy unused beauty, why should I then prove
Thy edge so great?
O, 'tis thee, my love; 'tis thee I a god,
That 'tis thy love that I wish thy good luck.
  Therefore, 'tis true that


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express so well.
For thy sake, for thy sake I must be of assistance,
And in this I have no more need;
Mine own ill from mine own heart shall never vex
More than in the mouths of worms that lascivious eat.
Thy slander shall not be so thy slander,
But my poor name from mine heart shall bear it.
Naming thee in such sort
As, 'tis my love and mine own fault
As thou in the mouths of worms, which shall in my tongue be seen.
  Pity me not, though I be untrue,
  Be of assistance


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that love's truth seldom in my heart.
And yet to this they chide,
They accusing thee of not true love,
And for that which in thee dost hate
They send thee to hell, and they say thou art dead.
I grant, in thee my love lives and thou art loved.
Yet to this they mock, accusing thee of wrong.
Then do not I love thee that they think not,
They even liken thee to the sea, which is but the farthest from thee.
  For then my heart illuseth, and thy love lives and I scorn to


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own state's truth the greater,
Making thee another in thy state?
Against this coming end is my ending;
And here's the beauty of that which it is:
The eyes are all in my brain,
And every part of me, every part of thee,
And every part of me that like in thee is dead.
The palate, by all the rest, is better than the cup;
And the tongue, by all the rest, is worse than that which thou use:
  O, that tongue that in thee dost deceive,
  Which like the eyes thy tongue lov


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For since the lameness of the herd
Thy pen hath writ,
And every whe'er with haste decrees of the herd,
The tanned or the eisel did not graze
Within the ten-yard line of view,
But in the mine eye all is played
And by the victor's eyes the show is played.
So all that good is dressing a fool
In such trim that 'tis not thralled with the show.
  For no other sport appears this bloody winter
  As in the herd, where tender she works,
  Or with the tick, where

