--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When in their spite I beheld thy beauty;
And their eyes, seeing thy beauty,
Have fixed their frown on thee,
And have given thee grace's sweet hue.
Yet thou, being loved, hast not yet seen my disgrace,
Nor, being despised, hath I seen thy beauty despised.
Thou art so despised, being despised of all the world,
That, having my love so despised,
I will be none the less hated.
  For, being despised of all the world,
  I will not be, nor will my love be.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I must strive to make love to thee
And make my love my friend's treasure
And that thou mightst my love live in my heart.
Thou art the most gentle heart,
And I am the most virtuous in my love.
I do not lie, nor do I boast
Of thy good deeds, nor do I boast
Of thy sweet love's beauty's deeds.
I am thy sweet friend, and thou art my sweet love.
  But when my love is so bad,
  I am not so kind, nor am I so kind.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
And make my living in the wealth of this world.
For if this fortune do rob,
Myself I will be made a slave to it,
And all my wealth be thine alone,
For this I will be a beggar, and I will die
With all my wealth, all my love, all my love's wealth.
  For to live in this I must die,
  And this I do, that thou mayst see my worth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than that which thou shalt lack,
And that which thou willst need,
And that which thou willst need no more.
For thou art so much more than that which thou dost desire,
Than that which thou willst need,
Than that which thou willst need,
And that which thou willst need,
And that which thou willst need,
Than that which thou willst need,
And that which thou willst need,
Than that which thou willst need,
And that which thou willst need,
  For thou art so much more


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself so far removed from thy sight is thy pilgrimage,
For thou, my pilgrimage, is not confined to thy sight.
I'll depart and stay there,
And go on my way,
Though not to thy sight thy pilgrimage be,
Nor my pilgrimage to thee be,
Nor thy pilgrimage to me by thy sight.
Thy pilgrimage is not confined to thy sight,
Nor to thy sight's windows nor thy sight's windows to thee.
Mine pilgrimage is not confined to thy sight,
Nor to thy sight's windows nor thy sight's windows to thee.
  For thy pilgrimage is


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou seeest not what they see
And that thou dost see in their seeing eyes
That thou wilt be deceived,
For love dost steal thy sight with his sweet doting eyes.
Thou art so blind that thou beholdest not what thou beholdest
And that thou wilt be deceived
For love dost steal thy sight with his sweet doting eyes.
  For this thou shouldst be condemned,
  For thou art so blind that thou seeest not what thou seeest.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might read my verse,
That my love might translate to the world,
That her beauty might be admired
And that she might think me some true poet,
That I might entertain her in my verse.
For she hath no verse but my love's,
And her beauty is so strong that it cannot be shaken.
  But that her beauty might change my mind,
  That her beauty might give me some comfort,
  That I might look on her and think her dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not so kind as to blame me for my deeds;
For if thou wilt, I will be thy friend,
For thou art my friend's friend, too.
Thou art my friend's treasure, my treasure's advocate;
Thou art my friend's friend's treasure, my friend's advocate's treasure;
If thou art my friend, my friend's treasure is thine,
And thou art my friend's treasure's advocate's treasure.
  But thou art my friend's treasure, my friend's treasure's advocate's treasure.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Than ill-doing tongue.
When I have translated, I have not translated in
Lack of truth, nor of truth's worth,
But in the most general sense of the word,
Which is, more or less, true than the rest.
For how much more true can a tongue say
Than the rest of the world's tongues, when they speak of thee?
  For what can tongues do but praise thee?
  Thy fair and true praise doth lie,
  And tongues so vile that they mock thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that my heart loves to me so much.
Therefore, for fear of losing thee, I do not say
"Thy eye thou art mine,"
Nor do I swear that thou art mine,
Nor do I deny thy love;
Nor do I deny thy worth,
Nor deny thy worth' worth' absence,
Nor deny thy worth' absence's absence's absence's absence.
  Yet for thy sake mine eye hath my heart's desire,
  And mine own heart's desire is thy love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy love, thy love's part,
Is true, true, true, true, true, true, true, true, true, true, true, true.
Mine own love is true, and thy love is false,
Thy own love is false, and thy love is true,
And yet thou art my love, and thy love is false,
  For thou art my love, and thy love is false,
  For thou art my love, and thy love is false.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To the bosom of the babe's neck,
Making swift a halt with swift motion,
Making swift a halt with swift motion with swift motion;
A halt which, in a slow motion,
Sets her dead, and straightens her out.
For that, my love, my love, is not swift nor swift;
It is swift and swift, and straight and straight.
My love is like a dove, which, like a dove,
Shifts up a steeple, and robs the water of her beauty.
  This, my love, is my love and all my love,

