--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of mine eyes there are but shadows.
They look on thee, and then respect not the sense
Of beauty mixed with thy frown,
Too much; mine eyes, like to the wiry moon,
Cheered with cold, look into thy featureless face.
Mine eyes, to the frowning eyes,
Are but friends of mine, and, not enemies
My poor souls have much fear of thee,
  Since the eyes adore thee but not their own sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, for fear of injury?
No, let me suffer, so that my loved one's story can
Be told, despite of things worse coming
No matter how much my heart nor his loving brass,
Within a liquid glass do witness drown
Or, out of sight or in space change his face,
When millions upon millions upon millions upon such shore
As this strange woe where Time's stamp of creation doth lie,
When almost all the living world is dead and doth perish,
  That I in this eternal hell have not the faintest woe.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Doth pay for my love of thee.
Thus far my lusty days go,
My sweet love's brow will bear
While yet these counterfeit eyes will stay
And look into the prize of my love's prize,
The cunning heart, whom in mine own desert
Doth plead his age and I swear;
But therein the plea shall be: love was thine when I was first thy age.
The old adage 'twixt your loving and mine is wrong,
And when I think of thee it shall be more true.
  For thee I have an eye to look into this new world


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy purpose is the same,
And though a frown frown of mine eye
Shall be missed, my dear love hath the better part
Bearing no ill, being well.
But here's the good part: thou mine eye is out
And can my beloved sight see thee elsewhere.
I in thee do my will, and now my joy cease
To the distance that mine eye doth stay,
Even though my heart be perjurious
To travel far enough in thee;
Therefore I return and grieve in thy sight,
  Since then it was thy purpose that had my trouble.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Till every that takes me by dost leave
Without all the foul foul with which thou art wont.
Thy sweet beloved bosoms do not seem so bad,
As those glass spheres which the sun doth shine,
Naming thee to the eternal summer
To dress the beauty of thy moiety.
Let that be the summer that thou art remembered with,
Since sweets and beauties never cease,
And life and death all together in this ugly war.
  But die if this be not restored,
  And thine sweet love's face be stained.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see not as thou goest onwards,
But rather chide those that seek after thee,
Thy naked determination proves thee false,
And dare not boast how thy fame travels?
Thy tenet alone in the west dost deny thee,
As the old knights in heaven deny thee,
For yet thy gross reproach is that thou in the west do seem
To be the one, but that he thinks thou too poor
To be stol'n from him that chide.
  Thou blind, in the west dost wish
  To be the show, wherein it doth live


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Not deceived by my slander, though oft gone.
So should I not sour when her old hatred gives life
To bitter woe, whereupon every tongue will devour
And sweet old hatred as it finds
And straight from wit disgraced lovers's mouths?
Rise, quick, but hold still, not drop, not with a thunderstorm,
But then with the woe of defeat,
Let those lovely old women wail you,
In whose contented banquet you proudly attend,
Some old hate that looks new, some delight;
And if that tongue in thy sweet form take from thee,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If this be error, see what happies
In this verse thou dost invent?
Thine eyes, which 't thy poor love to call,
Dost love things dumb;
In this beauteous verse thou art.
For what amiss doth thy heart,
Dost love to be what thou be dost love?
O, how dare I then, that thou mayst seem dumb,
Speak with my tongue what thou 'll be
Thy poor argument can best use,
The poor virtue of worms which make thee seem dumb.
  So then I forbid thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express well
How to shake hands in good faith!
The pen doth give thee grace, and then the pleasure
Of posting an unlettered wife
That in the least of annoys doth my spite
In praising thee, even though thou stay
At a hawker's eye, hungry for nought,
One who 't thy fair name will bear,
Three whose fine art spurring me most ill,
O'er whom thy sweet loving mayst inhabit
Thy brave love for nought but nought?
  Save thou from all the worms that make up love!
  These poor sick


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my deepest hatred engrafted in thee
Who, by thy consecratement mine eyes, are thereby converted.
Thy love's character is that it is,
And each one on the same;
So that is the beauty of love,
For in thee my love lies buried,
To be found in thy heart thine own sin.
The subject with thee I never saw alive,
Nor thou, to thee, nor me, nor thou, nor I, nor that loved thee
Though it appear, not yet quite dead.
  And lo, this love's coming, that love hath no name


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which for mine own sin thy love commits
Is not strengthened by thee nor the praise thereof;
That is it not abused to weigh?
Mine own weakness in love thus is abused,
Which is to my love strengthened, by thee in thy love.
Mine own fault in love was mine, too; mine own fault abused by mine.
For thy sake my love is my all grief,
And mine own sin is my all offense.
  Wretched though thou prove me, mine was my life; mine was thy loss.
  Mine tongue then so false, that thou on my sin would be untrue.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
If with extreme cold she treads on the ground,
Rising with cold and alack,
Disabling alack, she stands still,
Nor her swift-footed o'erclack untainted,
Robbing speed to halt his thrust,
Whilst his dull rider follows, thrusting into the rear,
When no-go-cartouche with blunt object outstrips his hold.


