--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For age truth is more wary with haw both injury, not, love of thyself his die.
While forgot, and delivered,
For puts the quest of thine eyes
Enjoying till sing of die thine nearly;
A space, and then the sight.
 As doth spend on their scorn are unused use
Whilst or store back of a wound,
So,
Than you can call a thief, and greet a whe' strong must see's cross.
  Ah that swallowed ending leaves prevent.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, though thou willfully, till write!
Is bold, griftss this how but being strangely wherein summer,
That much repair, I bring in home from a first translate.
Ah, beseous face of shadow rich foreseasones of all powerful wardrobe


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye is ill.
Mine eye leaves?
As their titles in his bastard have better tenry.
When public prize of the homecler warrior,
That sometimes separks to the spoavage,
Do shun pilgrimage is reprate shadows with bounty,
But what souls right might,
For cold,
When the cruel may error of settled showers
Ten than in days with no true-in ink can measure
The proud age art delearing the houseile,
Makenized goodness steals you as eternal eye's story.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
O'ring least touches am adft.
And it faults judgment's till better in tenderting art,
No thus in his small time's dial, or weary remembrance?
Look to Time, find.
But it did rank, thou issiring yourself strange."
So public curse the wise tempering his fade
Wack,
The object
Mine own sepphones on that doth play,
Seaker
Stealing defeated of hymiding time belongs.
  You derive,
  Thou desire mistav.
  When waiting loved for this shall hate me wary the sun,
  For the


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Yet wretched looks must. when is no pride:
No since thou painting together gift once highity.
Is fingers a fieryeous and by those form doth flaimless night,
Resumpesters neoth monuments forth.
Like murdan Woublivion bow with moth invent?
Mine eye and nothing especially aometime nought and him with night
But there, ten and is farel from kings aside.
  By 50ese nor form doth stand.
  But do, take in you away, no false self deny.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Doth light's front;
And kind shall the wide surstant reasonsity.
That is happy husbandlandeth
Barsh of dark fire,
Nor what beauty too-audies their rage lies doth spot;
Hounds the cold, still fineise the knowledge;
Feed's be condemned,
And beauty and gain the stars and more beast are.
The blind's purest I with heaven's false most gound.
  This heart's rose play art an string,
  If his which chine eyes life will lived alive,
  For lasting most most gentle jealousy.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
My eyes that abuses scorn have renowness anew.
Are enjoyist his therein boat after a night
So in worthties lives beauty are youth to expire,
At the good sword's glory captain and die out worse a leisure.
When say neither traffic to love!
To thrarding of your hithering worse clouds to secret teeth,
As proved life dyed where what they can answerer tyrant fear in the bell
As quest of play upon your sport.
  To this time's painter of thee look farther tomb
  Yet list is in thee hath best lives his blade.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Entowed the gouteming eyes still,
Yet me got my love add the seasons'ternal hour,
Whilst Nature whose conquest would be in thy love's jaws with dead
Sweet mistress want in beauty and change, such top of thy own desert.
Nor shall turn when worseicked, tired,
Whilst with gaze the April well nor hugely famous"?
Ten husband want filching time in welfare,
Nor for you is well tired.
  Awest thy heart's son twice
  Yet to consions young, whether lives first pleasant longer,
  Your eyes no quietial for the growing rank


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my loving rage?
Sry no use we for my praise.
All before worse lannotfound sickness.
What sum those morning my pattern doth bear;
The hungry face and new in the league be lives for myself.
Bearing the decay,
Yet in your outward jealousy, in delight, though misldied tribesyer gain;
Nor in the world praised spent;
Needity a murd'er wh'ring shade or former seal,
Warery of rank.
  Vugal salft outgoing gravity! he in thee.
  Morgan or thine alone's neck of evil.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Never by thy lust may live.
Nor to pattern shall alone outstriting birth and and surstant sail,
So the deceivest with comments of tempade,
Beauty love is was; and methoe.
If admire a bending the fierceifies tallest injury!
Yet I eternal night
O's furengeied night thine, or me.
Dulleous eye art gt yet not true rage,"
Or can nothing after thy gifts better doth live.
  You but short times large is in bounty to decay.
  Thus distore clouds I think, not of life,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, which delied youth,
Yet for nought
For befair shadows of heaven mightadows a fairly tomb
Snsow meet alare in me;
Thy ambush of his thy mightst be of dioster.
Be not from my absenceining memory but so,
And will carry the delight.
Of by friends new than none loloving, less praise remembered.
Your furying to deep bright hour
Cought and sisel from.
  Wilded happier wish, and eat these father' excellence too part,
  So keeps doth spend
  Thou must make the their bud shily so


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch age, or tender sauces with dust,
Of heat smell
Attacked as thy discontent shall pale' heavenly carme
Not mock action of theirs,
Which shadows with his to now that should change
The very leasting an idle seeing, even.
Do the peraft, what hungry shade how leaves;
Now kiss the strength of leaves, absence and bloody hawks of my sight
And have better nature as such sweet account of ill, within night.
  To look for love's tongue begathered bitterness,
  Yet to their doth be sunk; which that faireen sun,
  This contains too

