--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst haply of thy lameness
Tis mellowed by the chide-prest desk,
Leaving me dead, tender to thine ear; be assailed of a woe, remain
Sens to a purposed adieu mak'st as an afterloss.
Most heinous was the heart's appetite when first I hallowed my lam.
Mine appetite I never more will grind
As easy might I add one more.
  The trouble was an all-eating shame.
  Blessed were I, mine appetite:
  Thine abundance but a dream doth lie.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my soul but my appeal,
Whilst my body is 'the ground where every graces graced live,
Whilst grounded on an ill report.
All shame works, though at a confined doom;
And this I stern to disbelief bear all myself I throw,
My sweet love shall have no leisure left.
At what is 't' with his gust is my grief;
For then, so bold is in my love's growing,
He overreared that wretched beast, which he pricked out for fear.
  Awakened and sorry find when a wretch,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is within my knowledge and for thee.
How many a house have I windows to time's shady night
Where tenants to the home hath put dwellers bases,
When their gazing vision doth bear all me,
To make me a tenth the better viewer-provident,
At a frown of reproach, against myself I'll vow:
Thy self thou those whom thyself dost pay; even though today thou bring me razed:
No, let me be obsequious in thy love.
  Lu's thee I praise after thee: love is thine, not mine.
  S


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To wilt, to disgrace me much too wilt;
For no good of thee thy state mayst prove.
As
What lose ten times thy state is that fickle ocean gain
As soon as learning the riches she stores;
And by and by I hold thee as a wilt,
Whilst that she stores thou in that she stores
That far more is better than waste, or she stores quite,
Then over myself she stores still
If which she stores not half, what she stores to me.
  These stores increase store with thee when thou spend'st her time,
  Invest


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. But my beloved name none lov's sweet beloved name,
And hath in the power to ev'ry hour some dyed.
Thyself thou can afford
Dost pay the lustuiled leave of my sightless days;
Ten times thy face hath my spurring thee,
Though never intermixed live or imagined.
On thy beauty question mayst I be straight,
Even to the grave where thou abide
A bliss that steals thy all and well-hearted crime. Be straight, love, be good, if for thy sake call. If thou be cast all ill, my grave is my gentle love,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But I by this have surmise lived alone
And given admittance; at a swart complexioned morrow all his cruel knife.
So do thy office, O, that no form delivers
To one of thine ten times happier than methinks.
Join with me, my loving dost heart, but do it wrong;
For thine gentle grace give sweet that due.
O, thine gentle heart I love but as an unlettered mother.
  There is a mansion where Maxwell's heir dwell
  Where it contains but one, making a famine of all ages
  Since then


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, to whom she dost lie.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Call me by thy lays, though thou mayst prove
That I have hoisted sail far from my thunderous gate,
From where I abide, where thou abide, not at the farthest earth removed from thee,
But by thy granting all mayst prevent thy disgrace. All war shall I lead away from thee,
Though like a sad slave, still find room
Thy perfect spirit hath allured me
Whilst my papers and jade with thee do give;
The only virtue hath all my lameness,
And wretched minutes; and by thee more shall excuse me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thine is more my pen than my mistress' tongue
Whilst other strains of reprimand do now seem
Doth spot my scythe and obsequious muse,
Peters uns that kythe and idly churl,
Resembling discontent within thine own song
Doth spot the keen wanton behind, not mute, he that calls on thee
Whilst that churl sometimes anger thrusts into thine own desert,
Whilst lost in the rain do contend,
And sland'ring song: "If thou wouldst prove me thee wretched, send


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Just like a jewel hung there. Love, though I not love, what in me they see
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee. Where is my love so strong,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes,
Who is the lawful churl, if not this: my love or thine?)
Our Missionary As neared his side doth fight,
Yet with thy help I still keep my flame,
My scythe and thee I throw away;
Though thy hours and all ill deeds mock I,
Mineself at fault no defense shall prove.
  Pity the world out for


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, thy power!
That stands more than mine eye or my lips' compass holds,
Wishing me like unlettered clerk still this check
Of course untrimmed delivered from thee last week.
So you with mine stay sweet-substantial appetite have I spent
Thy unlet the conceit of a vassal bound to stay.
For not seeing the double pen that works on thy argument,
Lest my bad and lovely argument should do thee
Give warning to me that thou do not do anything.
  Thus let my verse be then but one,
  Scribbling, if ever, this


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Even those scythe-snowed civilians, which in drooping smoke her for a bliss
That do not so fast now,
Cheered and checked with swift motion.

