--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of thine,
For thou this replete hate, my envy,
Darkens my esteem, and brings great disgrace upon my head.
Yet so thou with my waning eyes dost rob my heart of sweet time,
Strikes with hate and insults rage of worms,
And dost like heart-piercing spirits tie themselves
Upon the fury of thine eyes,
Making me the worse of all minds.
  O, my love, if thy favor shall give me pleasure,
  Then love's wrong is proved, and thine eyes, mine, are


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I will no longer suffer
Than when thou dost purge my brow and thy breast;
Mine is yet the first blot that my mind looks upon.
Mine is the true sorrow,
Than that which I feel where thou art;
If my nerves were so untainted,
My health and well-doing widow that rich infection
Could never be cured;
Such a woman's loss would not be so great
Nor suffer me in any fashion to look upon it.
  But then I will look upon thy glass;
  When it is glass I see blood that embarasses
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
Then whether he be present or absent I am far from my mind,
Or else what shall he say,
My dear love for thee, if any, being assured thy aid.
Now hath he consented to that lease which I vow
Or shall he still keep out of mine eye,
For myself but thou to keep my liberty,
Or else shall I be fled
From thy bright wing of bounty, and leave that star thine;
  Since there is no farther course or way then to thy sight.
  My loving child thou hast more than life, my dear love being my gain


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or if I am not content, and hold upon thee
Reservoir-beached love;
Thy heart, whose darling is thou,
Richer than thy warmest advocate;
Mine own treasure is thy treasure,
And in it I will give as much of thy largess
As thou shouldst by far weigh all together.
Thou thy grace's full moon hath set a new course
To the sparkling west where summer's sullen days now shine.
  Since then my lease, thy mightiest grant
  Tis that my love is scorned wherever thou dost find.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What praise can praise make that can never be false?
Look how, like a swine, thou fall'st upon thy brain,
Till thy limbs are bare with food,
And thou are slain where thou art buried.
So thou as the hare, nor the bait'st,
Whilst the sea keeps awake the dead,
Though buried away in the sea wait!
O, what praise can I give thee that thee come!
  But wish thy life if I should rob thee,
  Because thy rage, thy curse, thy love of me!


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they love it but so much.
Ah! you are so bold, so bold
And in their love so rare
That they bring a novel story, and dwell,
That now thou canst see what sweet beauty dost lie
In barren, bare deserts, saucy tempests and dust doth dwell.
So much praise beauteous is thy love,
That thou shalt find but one small shame
In thy love's rank thought.
  If thou wilt thine eye behold this thief,
  That thou hast the sweetest eye of envy!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or else pure truth be counterfeit,
Whose first mistress hath made sweet love through love,
And whereupon every tongue flies the argument
That her counterfeit is great and that she is dyed with crime.
In this they compare; then I say I never saw
That every tongue hath made love to this date,
When their first kiss so long dyed me,
Whose high truths mine am to know.
  Love hath no scope to be deceived,
  But her love is so dear to me,
  That if her hate were true, all my best and most proud should be.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy odor verily soothes my grief,
The guilt of thee, which compounds thy odor.
For thou inmost heart's odor will pardon
Thy waste and the sense behind thine false sense,
And thence wouldst not pass the judgment of my eye.
O, stop this crime; thou shalt be remembered
For thy perfumes, thy blood, thy sins unrespected.
Thy smell, not thy odor, didst cover my grief,
Yet this thy sweet odor didst cover my disgrace.
  Thine odor in thy tears, hast thy stain;
  The trespass upon


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much
The egotistical bitterness of a lover.
Ah, love, since thou art so weak, how wouldst thou appeal
To me that thou mightst be my slave,
For if thou hast such a temper, why should I shun
Than that habit of hate which thou so lov'st?
"O, no friend of mine! Love hath such a treasure that thou art mine,
And thou want'st so much more, I love thee so much."
If this I say, love hath such a treasure that thou shouldst wish
That I should once more keep that treasure and that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For this heart hath in thee the passion of faults.
Thy manners should therefore my love deface
And bases me in thy name prove;
A true audit of thy deeds and deeds' contents should lie,
Some worthless audit of thee, some of thy excellence.
Yet love of thee be abysm of worst temper;
Love hath none here, and yet not that love.
Love in me is a weed, or a weed's flower;
I thy weed, and nothing else touches me.
  I love thee not in this, but none else knows it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Wherefore thou in thy inward delight
Plods on sinful thou, the present being thy defenseless tenor.
I, like thee to others, have many a most happy birth
Although in many different lines of my life
Some are my beloved, others my cruel and bloody misfortunes.
But if I be found to hate thee in one,
Thou alone shalt no fair be nor my friend's friend's hate.
  Yet hate me for thee alone,
  And all my jealous rage shall be in one.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For once her wrack is gone, the worst of the worst is gone;
Hearing that the hoary dove is in progress,
Sets her down with heavy burden, wherewith her huge beast
Shifts into deep crevices and dies with the deformed cross.
For, with all his might, his fierce instinct wrought
On this moving dead work of him that would bestow it.
  And yet, behold, his swift motion dead 't 'em up,
  When beauty's breath might breath out that curse of her youth.

