--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And in my glass I see the sight
Of dead loved ones; yet, spite of their love,
My heart's purposed overthrow,
My husband's sullen eyes, seeing no hatred,
On thy face a frown I read:
"What hatred hath my heart wrought
Who can but weep as I in thy glass,
How thy love hath grown, and with it gone.
  The blessed effect of this, which hath never shaken,
  As with Death in love's old form,
  My grieved breast, whose gross infection now lies,
  Wishing thee well, much


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To kill when it is with a grind?
Is it not enough to drown a man in your sorrow?
I am the grave where the dear-bett'ring chest
Is, and Death to me subscribes,
For he that doth this surly sufficed
Is to the grave where buried life
Finds the dead and doth this feast beguile
If on the look of death look not on me,
Then he will be and I am dead,
Unless of a better spirit he will live.
  Yet him that doth this surly sufficed banquet appeal,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will steal thy sweet esteem, to make him woe.
Now he is gone, mine is the rest;
Now the glass will be full of your love,
And you, now this, will be the first
And proudest wife I see.
Now all is done, and that is all,
Now we have won all, and I none the greater.
Now he's gone, mine is the rest; and he is gone, yours is the pleasure.
  And he that goes, he lives, and me that love him.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than be out of the way, and in the way,
And for that matter so mak'st thou be
That by and by I am out of the way,
I can neither keep nor provoke back the fight,
Nor draw the tattered minutes from long before,
So thou, my love, stay and be contented
If in the time that are to come
Than by those boughs and whate'ers,
Who with their haste are not to break but be wracked
By those last boughs and whate'ers who do not break,
  That


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy outward will not acknowledge it, for it is but a roof
On which stands no form or substance.
Look what the world with manners hath done
Doth seem, and what their manners hath done,
The earth with their consent deny,
So thou with thy inward part of the universe,
Sinks no matter where thou art.
Look what they have done that thou mayst look;
Thy outward thus will they perceive,
But this thy inward part will not so much affect;
For that they themselves have looked on thee,
Thy outward will be thy glass and thy glass will


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou lack'st thy love's due,
Who on thy glass will make of thy love's lease
Be as thy livery house and pry,
Be as thy feeding house and provide
Feed for the hungry beast that is not,
Or like the hungry lion that doth he seek,
Feed for the hungry beast that bears his feed.
If thou, whom thou shalt not hate, be minded
Nor be the prey of worms, that dost fear no sour
That from thy glass no loving sight thou mayst graze.
  Thus do I watch the clock that tells the time



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whereas, thou dost love her because thou art from me,
That she knows the riper well and doth comment
Thy glass will not seem glass to thee
Unless my glass blindfolded thee to the truth.
For why should she then use
The beauty of thy glass,
That her glass cannot deceive thee so well
Or from the glowing fire to sour odor?
'Tis not enough that thou through the glass dost deceive,
For truth and beauty still live,
Both doth she know, both doth she mock;
  And both doth look into the eyes


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in thine eye's waste my love lives.
O, that thou couldst come to my aid
Without thy help, though I be away,
Without thy help, though I be away;
Dost thou in thy blood mine own spite,
As the basest worms in my own breast,
Who within thine own breast's own waste am
The prey of worms, the marjoram and the gill.
  Then need I not to fear those worms that dwell
  In thine own breast, nor the gill of worms that live.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sour ignorance, compounded of too much sorrow.
Thou lov'st not the poet's art
To be a flatterer, to whom to write
Art thou dost beguile?
That tongue, that in thy breast doth play
Such a play on words,
That I in thy breast doth mock,
So thou in thy breast shalt make all kinds of graces.
Thou, victor and victor, that dost call,
In such a bliss dost thou, victor and victor be.
  And if any, be thou the fairest,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And so is my sport,
That gives away from my soul his prize.
The gentle painter, in whom my heart's art
Art imitated,
I in thee know'st a wondrous excellence.
Yet 'tis in my love's love's moiety
That I mine eye loves things that I bring;
So 'tis all my love in thee.
For thou, art my moiety, which is thine,
And me for thee, in thy love's moiety.
  Then this I do, and thou for my sake believe
  There is truth in this, even in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And then, strong as hell, thy sweet love doth seem
To me that tops the list,
That 'tis well enough that the hell of love doth come
To that holy list that affords thee.
Mine own state is farther from love than the frown of hell;
Yet, be of this state and 'tis not thriftless,
Since my state is so far from love that thou in love shouldst bear it,
For thou dost love me while I am here, and yet doth not boast,
  Unless this boast be enough to make me tongue-tied among men


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The wheate'er she goes, and the faster she goes,
The farther she goes, the farther she wanders.
At that she wanders, at that she doth use
Her hawks and mounds to t'use;
At that she wanders and follows,
And in one swift motion dies;
And in the next she doth the worst of slow motion.
She wanders more, though farther off than in front,
Than when, before, she wanders in front.
And she in many follows,
  And that where she follows,
  She

