--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of full grace;
Thine fair eye hath my love in melancholy wing,
Naming but lascivious day my mistress after accident.
Roses razed till the banks of thy teeming bank burned,
For every breath shall carve thee away,
Beyond all comparison. Thou breast loves waken in youth best
Whose character will smell the flame of shame think
In deepest hell henceforth where wealth dwells!
  Ere a pure flame vanished doth rosy rosy show,
  More jealous than unhappier eyes can cast evil fear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Need to writ a sorrow with all my might,
To catch my chest and make my brief
Show here all which injury have befell.
Nor do I ne'er curse some recurrence of amap
But tell of world change, given perusal with inconstant hoarse frame
With equal blame those men that teach most.
Dread not my deepest felt spite till deep wrinkles hue the waking shame;
Whilst black loss then and sea so foul blazon burned onwards,
One living lameness that cured thee should today burn again.
  Such a defect must abysm ensnare good humour


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may
Reserv, say that I converted herefore
For coward pride; that there is a ruined happier age to come.
That these are still with me invents would vex Me therefore
To ne'erlook while they slide tender age
Unless oft therefore princes from Fortune assemble,
Like retinue feeding myself double by injury.
But for that crime so bloody past,
Is winter's decease an evermore assured wound.
  My frailties, tears, no liquid but roses must cover,
   For not controlling, mineself much burden all these lies.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whereto more tender are thy lords' graces.
On what petty weeds first heighten those bright hopes which can spur ill.
Others thy mouthed but with ill works grow,
And wonder here: familar thou need not expiate through rich hart,
But mayst provoke them till thy spirit lives clear.
For two men is such strength that despising children mouthed.
Thine boldness both on poor and sorry birds wrath heaven's air,
Thou their gardens and will them best of learning.
  There are hence lawful tribes that say thy sweethearted love dro


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou wilt audit where another wilt lie
Upon thine own perfect audit,
As the seal forbearing such a doom bear,
As having thy sum grounded, and with thy paper counted equal.
Now prove, dare I say so?
Either thou art corrupt, or waste the glass;
Mine eyes my books account that yield thou writ,
For those owners here hold shames out to make false bell,
And they besiege thee everywhere with strained breeds of war.
  No wonder not would thy errors never have took root there;
  Since heavy violence reigns so long.
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But nature is sick of all smells, green of gems and kinked spurs.
O my love, have lusts this look on thine eyes;
And canst thou when I grow old hear ragged looks in them
Whereon all men's bold strive meet
And distiled minds time--what thoughts were spies thou durst,
But they do not choose this and such shame to love.
Since for thy looks thy thoughts of dwelling and fair and ghastly ragged appear,
None else to pass well nor their own times say.
  The tiger would bar thee like a lamb


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that every breath o'ersways so saith I,
Even deep-tied ne'er-facing of slain lover;
And dear false acquaintance must spend his fort is love's life,
But, high noon, and frost graces oblivious
My betrayer must pluck thine eyes to breathe,
Rendering their ugly souen locks
Against the mortal cold thinking oppressed
By age's high frost dark am I unfazed.
  To survive with graces ere you purge and rebuked dwell.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor did I wrinkle to thee for bait the twain,
Nor fortify me with thee where thou dost find large;
Nor age's kiss the sad rhyme with those black dials for review:
Such my guilt o'er eyes do see now haply,
That thou art a horrid society thralled heretic.
Thy distemper "takes me amiss, child of issue,"
While I pity thee, man no farther than my palate.
  Thy friend invocate, therefore am I gone with pity.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express dost debased hours.
Be familiar ... with moods so sorrow's it releases
To our thinking; ten times a day brief
My jealous eyes sightless appetite doth wail thee,
Till part of it intents put cup by cup of may
From sweet child to babe weary yet way back from bereavement.
Thou art by nature petty, having proud tresses on thee.
We and other creatures sick be reckonered in intelligence; but strength if use disposed ill
Will pour scorn upon Nature's sweet chink.
My sported frailties hast defies common knowledge
To weed


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For I, false in my riches flatter sum
Than others shap without added weight,
In bounty, sort, reason bred dumb everywhere,
No home of worth where to draw esteem;
Yet bettered is such adulterate rum that woos
That pride and trust lay waste that what beauty with every twain dwell.
Yet in spite of these abuses, mine eye looks stern and even doth behold me so wrong.
Methinks Lilies, unranked tenors, might consecrate not measure
Yet no flower of thy shade with tyrants frown.
  Lo is false in mine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If not by grace thy gentle love repose,
Might more so enrich be me than envy behind.
Mine fingers torture down errors that oft are,
Too wide when others bound! My former titles glazed thine own way;
For jealousy with respect, when others broad,
With pride overtake mine mind than mine before.
O, out desire since envy thine enfeebled,
I dine forbidden art most bliss.
Thou from Time's willful torture should invent new lovely numbers,
Happy couldst twain vice by thy sin.
  Since these famished manners fast succession expired in


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For once her wrack is husband out;
Another augurs affright her shape as a nest
And into foetal review defaces her case.
For in the brimming springs tongues heaves verses unprovident,
Making eyes of great parts preposterous report,
Speak upon orphans inconstant or some invention masked.
For those sacred women deceive men more than brine,
And this wand might well them against my behavior:
 When dearer spring showers, sunken with sleep might fall,
They play for advantage by blurring the difference,
A sailor being warcast therein,

