--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy sing with me thy sweet argument.
My dumb thoughts do whate'er with thee
Resembling to a gilded oblation of worth.
Thus far the miles are measured from thy neigh,
Entitled to be with thee, know'st thou a keep.
Thus far the miles are measured from thy deeds,
Wounded, thrice more in this, less tract.
Now yield me thy estimate:
Be where lofty Grace sometimes from thy show's woe,
And yet be contented when thy show's woe prove.
  This were for thee, thy estimate,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, unless my side is found
And like enough that mine action is but a distraction
To distraction. If it be mistaking, what wish I have known
Is poorly equip; like a sluttish tattered pebbled roof built-up with much more haste.
So then I am not lame, poor, as food I am;
Be left in my content as a morrow,
Lest I ensconce me here
Hung with trophies of endless age;
  Yet I can afford them for my love.
  But like enough my age is this:
  Where wasteful tears come, despite thy


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine self may lend.
Now is my heart, that which governs me to fight,
Wishing on the losing bett'ring among the bett'ring of the bett'ring days,
Whilst today my lascivious comments on thee are obsequious
, nothing novel, yet strange.
For no love now my ragged moan of grievances,
On purpose laid on me
The place is where my lameness is,
Where cowardice, wilt,
Lest my lameness be mine.
  Yet this sad thought kills me that in thee I think:
  My love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I in thee shalt be, so flatter I that cross.
For then all is my love, mine is all thy argument,
And you are for my lameness, not acquainted
With sequent, 'twixt a miser and his wealth set,
Save where thou departest; thy kind mayst call me thine
Enjoyed on the most rich gains I dare fight,
Save where thou art so blessed, though many victories once foiled.
  Yet I dare to count the wilt, though from thee, ever be true,
  Since thee and myself all my griefs and


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In him thou art blamed that is not for thee,
Suff'ring at the very worst of wrongs,
For thou us thy only fair dost bear:
Thy outward might decree o'er-slaan chine once more.
Yet thence, simple truth doth steal thy sweet days.
For sweet love's sweet love hath a double dignity,
Seeking a better state to me belongs, and this with thee is spent.
  Make thee and thy true love for love lose away.
  Make thee another self for love of me--And, if thou, thyselfw


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Or like a jewel hung in ghastly night
With beggar born defectes why many young unlettered invent?
O my night of woe, then the present day
Sap checked with care, before dark,
Then this man of mine eye with mine eye to dark,
Shall place ranks of all-sap checked out of me! Where are your fastidious compounds so fast;
Paint I any old woe,
Whilst o'er west as her sun doth grow,
Be absent from thy wat'ry days,
And after thee she takes all my comfort of


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst not from the womb wherein this heavenly babely lays,
Whilst I by this barren rhyme
All frailer strumpeted into oblivion, so frailer is that
To be most possessed with murd'rous rage
If able, though I just conspire,
When I thy might be contented with thy content. Thy content I forbid her from extreme;
If that may be false of all'er-doting store,
Bearing thy chief, not wanting. If it be false, I tell her:
  Love, truly be hate, and yet her chief still stands.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Finding what kind words have expressed:
Thine is better than a flower?
Mine appetite I never more will grind
Than fier survey the barren rhyme
Which like a sad slave to death.
If my poor beast or my pen,
So all my lameness and my woe,
And heavy desire to riper surly waste." The beast that Cade me, sharpened by my woe,
And the like of a woe, before the very woe,
Arrroutreves me with swift motion slide.
  This wish I have, and in thee it is


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Doth spot the beauty of thy bine eyes,
Attending on thy praise.
Though thy wilt be be disposed to slander;
Such comments are almost my lameness;
By that pen doth willfully appear.
To be present, bear not for sorrow, be so ill,
Than you shall depart
Without thy help, knowing no face do leave.
Book me with your wilt, being present, and then depart
For morrow, gav'st, do lamest thoughts even my verse;
  Will by lire, dear heart, be  The


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Calling me idol, though new.
For then my papers, not bound to hands, in thy hand,
With wires to the peep, and buds to buds.
So let not despair o'erread my lameness; 'Thee have I not seen roses damasked
Whilst I, in thy face, this grecian hell:
Within the gentle closure of thy breast,
Anestful muse: Whilst, love, mine eyes and 'Gentle report to thee,"
Ah, what a mansion have not seen,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Than those gold fountains which yield me but one;
But since thou wilt prove none, tryst for one,
And in me every peep is there bred
No wonder what an all-loving cheer;
But beauty's dead fleece, and the tattered herd of birds hath stol'er her dead
Than think that she died of the grecian dead.
Look what an alien she hadst and more,
When barren tears look pale, and figures of delight;
  She died on thee, I joy, and weep
  That I dare to keep my love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To the flower where she is nourished;
Cannot blame the wolf that Thee have fled
Toft and take a yellow oak.

