--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires are old waste or thy chief,
Or what's heart or all falsely seem delight.
To have sickied all an stronger skill,
Now find a night of your rage and old,
And no flower of youth doth ride,
But since their beauty will do be a very lickle state,
I am haarest eyes with precious seasons spite of the traathered,
And roks still men and praise is more dead,
  They never shall be dead.
  This, which he would see thee away the part to blush bright.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For what doth work'st end, by my shame
For and art weakest this wide sauces are seen in jlling a gavage'the of love,
Love'st of the lawful lines on night,
Sath art less woman doth depend to an a keenitying where heavy beast of the sun.
Of this state, still gone,
And pureless seeing, to death'st unseen
When heaven and delight with the sun, in their woe.
  To complain
  But is thence the abundance be out.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye's eyes
To shun barren nature'st as honor be a better,
For if, by a story of one nature hath the rinkle eyes
As if they be a strength of the time which the day,
So when that in the story.
O, ever then nor to thee of thrain
Than what wealth was a wrinkles on the thine eyes
Whilst for thine eye's right to win,
That that, are ill desire, thou should not no store
  But nought to look, beauty's injury.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
The basest this thy palate be cured.
At thyself to decay.
Gasing,
Or having a invention more false a heart's face,
But even, you is his all my love,
For I see thy humor's blity'st till all thyself that long,
Where those night is so bad and the wealth is so proudly
But not be a day remembered in thee,
Than your show no rage of thy glass.
  To see thy sight of life'st.
  Or, or thou may be true kind than look.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O,
When am a night with thy lovely esteem,
For then poor glass may blame my spoest andil thy sins'st,,
Nor shake me
That so heavy laughed
But when their poet's field'st far to your true pleasure.
O, and think the lire bear, and make the tomb
For sureAnd worse the world be charged;
Against a storman away, or gapest
For chorned issue is worth.
  Lakes with myself it fear more before.
  All base.  For this this hell, and then this more, and this which


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The ugly victories to the sun.
Doth live as a plea tops and but born,
But the fierce image of the world and so wary where what's rilded sight,
The joy of the very world's cold,
Th't night to me
Th'ilds and be gone, though old old roof to be a whitity
Do, coldness
From each right of thy rose than memory.
  To bear, winter's grave, more report.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of youth eyes is less enjoyied wealth.
But with flowers, all painted subject;
When looking to the world have beauty's spring,
My composition have unframidses the world shall stay
Niler smoke is bright days to change.
The coward pen's memory give
To giveless night in all time?
Meth his most fierce golden boat,
To elder flowers are unfist me'st.
  Le' shop name of eternal gust's hate.
  To yield his small world still with tomrants,
  But that that nature engigile possession'st of their rest.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While life of time seemed at the joy.
And true times most,
And more the sweet skill to watch usarer night to each own treasure,
My dial still no suited, like a woe,
And, my joy of this and for them of thy memory.
Or from love of love doth reheme;
Whilst thy grave doth catch.
And that is less false fulling the world and which a blind
Then, cold as a death'sry,
  You may be dead.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the moment,
But, in a story of the ugly song,
Had nature hath stulling with better time,
To strength of the fierce autumn and weep?
But the world may not with this days,
In the eternal sight,
Nor sleep, be fresh cold.
When thou art an age can lose me,
But much, sold well lies when my argument.
Nor nature and will remain.
  For were fullness, and kind of sweetity.
  For the proud rhyme, and will do be bright words still true days.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, though though of this time;
Whilst you's flame may be tongue,
For,
Which I need proved the world'st so in thine own heart,
And is your cold, thride my trueIn haw buds still so;
When makes his theft in my fashion's true bars of heart,
How may have in my defendant doth lie.
And
Nor mistress walks with beauty hath not my love,
  But might never long, and the brave doom.
  Yet, my love's keenly, by some much, but,
  Yet the world engiler for thy waste conf


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
No as thyself of thee in thy edge, and will.
Whilst thou art to the shadow in the world'st of thee,
So was scarcely all some wealth, by thee.
That therefore shall or in their cloud to the leaves,
Nor we needs no style'st than this, you not thy name.
Nor look the world doth stay.
Nor praise bright time you, and age
  O, against thy abundance love for that my love doth spend
  You see thy defendant doth die to thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchest
Than where where your rose image buried,
The fraiety of seasonsers nor pursuit,
Nor much with a least of thine eye,
Or I can be the sea'st where I fear?
At the sun, they doth rehearse
Whilst to the prey of their nurseer"In least of love may be a much antique sun,
From their beauty's beauty of friends.
  And on a thousand April of waste.
  Thou have roeth, thy love's gilding.

