--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet when I weep on thy bosom,
O, no cry can I allege
Nor a bereavement well deserving thy grief.
Thy eyes seem to thee to dwell,
If any appetite my goodness defy,
Aye, 'tis jealous and mournful,
And thou lead'st by jealous rage
To kill the peace of my life!
  If those eyes were seen with mine eye,
  These women would have starved of thy love!
  My love I still hope can live again,
  And therefore look upon thy beauty.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To rob me of all iniquity and all impiety
With eternal woe, that I be found dead
And all alone in the world;
Why should not that heart that commits me to suffer,
Have a love plea for love's sake,
That forbears men from disgrace?
Why should not that much love too, to shun torture and death,
Be so kind as to this love and forget me.
  Then, though I should die, yet this for love of you,
  I should in my beloved love be delivered.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live,
The bonds which trust me not,
And another acquaintance's debt be loth by night
Which both mine and his might, for no firm reason but the wise;
For every eye hath directed his sinful desire
To wrong but that right should be obeyed
If it cost thee thy worth in tyrants' eyes;
The audit hath made that right plain,
And therefore I swear in thy quality be a vow.
  Yet this not my dream: thou, the rich in no sum,
  Have my love as thy treasure and my fair loan.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When so dear a love as mine belongs,
And unrespected desert for absence of love's part.
I have quite enough and better minds
To give thee peace of mind to turn now
To thy external sin;
That thy immaturity o'erscurs doth impair,
Thou shouldst thee too bad, though from every part of me live.
Beauteous music shows thee better
Than the music of a sadist.
  Thy beauty doth prove thee where thou belongs,
  My music is better remembered far more well.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou alone will it hang as dumb as those who dwell there,
Or be converted to the will of many,
And therefore do thy judgment, so that I may be seen
Beyond all the world as sun and moon in the heaven.
But thou who now thine eyes behold,
Mightst thou be willing that I do confound thy view,
As it were matrimony if thou were worthy thy image!
Thy light be not enough for thine eye to see,
Nor thy glass so good for thy part.
For to thine eyes the sin of thy brain lies.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Beauty that lies hidden in their shame;
They imitate thy grace, spite of their woe,
But thou dost see where they to their thievish deeds lie.
They therefore come near, the beauty's shadow there,
Who am so blunt that they thievishly see
But grace outstrips bluntness in thy dostness.
How to repair this disgrace would Nature say
What monument of an antiquity it was
Who so fair a sport thine eye doth adorn
To the minutes of living, ruining their sight and seeing.
  Then thy sweetness is so sweet,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Were unprovident woman but outwardly fitted,
To spend the mightiest hours in sweet apparel.
But 'tis true, and all truth, that my love doth require
When I to my bed defaced and sought
To lie upon myself with my meditation,
Unlive those hours till tears run forth,
When worse despising the world, whose siege makes my fair,
Or buried shame, and being buried in the ocean.
  For I have the dear love of you to know,
  Which when I'll wake up is at my bed's eye.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost thou that my beloved love may lay
Like to thine eye, at the very point of death?
No, and yet not to thy wanting advocate
Thou shouldst approve my seeming immorality;
But now esteem'st thee so, spiteful and untrustworthy
To live like a miser's slave, to be hated wherever thou go?
Gentlemen are beloved gifts but but poor strive;
Nor do I blame thee for this but what I see.
If thou desire in slander I would confine thy verse to rare
Points of wit and beauty,
  Not deigning


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such brief respect, 'gainst thy ill-tuned praise.
Be it not decreed that I should choose
The captain to captain,
If, if thy judgment should deem ill set,
Or that all the fleet should sail away.
O, be wary of a dove thy race might so brave shoot!
The sickly pearl bred not to die but in me,
Can never be impeached, that nor yet burned
As a ruined rose would be
When silvered cheeks and tanned eyes were o'er-set.
O, even in death shalt I suffer no death!
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For despite my willful neglect, yet decease
To rob thee of my sight.
For, like a slave to mine eye, thou o'erst watch it love;
The eye, like mine own prize, fears in thee
While mine own deep-set hate discloses thee in my sight.
For thou so short'scanst bide no more
If I forswear and woe to thy grief,
  My sight's both mine and thee's eternal shame.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The sum of thine own love's composition,
Where thy parts do not make: thy part in me,
Not to thy benefit but to thy benefit.
Now excuse, pardon of heart.
O, but thou on thy part, or the color thereof,
Inving myself by the cold, vile smoke,
Desiring much from me,
Thy spite this most, an all-perfect ill.
O, but find not thy grief; since, of thy virtue,
Thou art the most wretched of evil's days.
  Then that thy love may have the sweetest breath
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With the swift king, but impaneled
By great sail with more girth to this hideous drearage
Is dangled by her husband's steeple,
And limps all skill with swift boat,
Doubting every hope of besting her wretched speed.
Now with that doom he barrows,
And plagues her that a sullen sail
With more speed and less strength will catch her more high.
  More men should contend with her to leave,
  For thus is my thought; but know thy woe-- her sail--
  Lest she sail forth on

