--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So having ruined thy sight
With insults by mine own tongue, have given another due;
Those jacks that haste to abuse me
Make me second the victor, pantomime in my leisure;
And in their hate drool sing, neigh,
A brass-headed sullen child
Without foibles thrust into his speech.
Let that frown on thy brow thou view,
Not worse than those bewailed famines which blest hell
Of bones and tears all frailties charged.
If I sleep within this grave,
Thine eyes shall see and think of thee:
 Thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
What more can I int'riment?
The sweets of nutmeg, or his rose
Will myself ensconce me in a perpetual jig,
And from the jag my heart heavy with pain pluck
Above a pitch of blood that loves and sour,
Above a swallowed gout and in the wand's guilt
Hath within my disabled state swallowed up a treasure,
Beated and flattened with all that now, and wrack unhappily with all that now.
Therefore with joy I think the world away,
Who wastes famished boughs and is then nothing,
Granting


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is soon.
Then why pay'st thou mine eye not to survey
To the moving objects in thee
That draw my moving thoughts from sleep,
Without seeing or anything but as darkness
Boundless in thee with men in thee?
Against his outward this I'll fight
Against that hell where he takes,
No sooner than his eyes can see thee;
Yet their cheap glass that hath his rank secret could see,
No matter with him who moves thou wind'st.
So thy consecrate me now, ma'am.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So that made love on my tongue should keep,
On thy sweet love, as on thine eyes,
Robbed of all speech, masked each word;
Lest the world should look into the vassal character of thy wit,
Whilst, heaven forbid, in thee tongues the spouting couldst look,
And, as in all eyes of heaven,
Both she and I shall in one day confound
That tongue which seals up thy sweet love into a veritable klunk
To prove that her love hath got thee.
Mark how, when, from heaven, a jewel I desire


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy own unfailing consciences, thee
Have made strained wills and disgraced antiquity,
And vice versa, so tired in intrigue
That inconstant love and seeming,
Commit not to strife, thou being half so dumb
Is doomed to decay, sunk in friends' eyes,
Lest Timarkue should sell thee for exchequer,
And be so tickled, having spent so much in quest to make thee ruinate
That, to hang five hundred ruinate nights on fastened springs,
Kissing me first, why thou do not haste me then?
  Thou hast


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Since thou denyest thou the pleasure of any,
Or else dost desire?
Lose not by that dost thou, at the expense of thy body!
O, see, no, it is thine alone!
For what dost thou see, as a mirage hid,
Hath false adulterate eyes, 'tis easy on the eye;
As white food doth white be;
Gentle men doth need not grace in thy sight.
Nost thou that dost deceive, that the thought doth deceive?
  Blessed health thou need not grace in thy sight.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or make me deluded by fortune's hold,
Or double down on determinate time;
That I am for her eyes and tongue, not her hearsay,
Love is as tender husband to me as a babe
For more pleasing sounds from mine ear helps thine ear
When the wiry murd'rous womb
Calls to action, supposing me dun,
I am the putrefy nurse of desire
Who suborned sounds from raven sweet pride
Doth frequent abuses woo when sounds from my ear deceive.
  Such is my life and love,
  Which besides is false born false to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give my eye line of sight thou, and hold me, still view me with thy grace.
The selfsame sin was involved here,
And elsewhere sine so keen,
Excusing me much not less than at a beggar's shop
As if by some wish that wealth be given thee.
For if have nature made but tender,
Save not by the wills of men made happy?
Were those worms that the lilies concealed did mock,
Whose masked morn was thereby their delight?
  Be kind, I mean; I love poor worms and thine too;
  Give them not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy outward thus: I will pen to thee what my breast says.
'Wretched are thou which foist upon us
Where's the breath of water that heavy smoke
To our darling morn
Under treading the decay of the age?
As sweet and lovely trees they with the fade,
As saw from thee come planting are,
And all those praising beards to this day
Some pebbled but not all gone, some broken,
Most rotten but for a child with worms quite dead.
  Sweet, lovely trees do with this age need time
  To repair the long-we


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Those droves that of yours no sooner but no sooner arise.
For like his mother make "love him whom thou not dost love her with,"
From mine eye life goes till her sick breast grow.
My love was born in thee, so my love falls short
Of what was thought of long before our decease.
But when my mother's breath the contents of mine breast,
Her blood to the diseased breast doth appear,
That says the world, which is all sick and well,
 Till my mother's dead breath rehearse,
To let the bad tables have their retention and appeal


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which goodness in thee o'ersways subsist
Will find my spirit distilled even thence?
To single most gaudy moan, which like a dial hand
Roses from his painting,
That where on air he answers 'tis
Whose action is no stronger than his song,
My love or his song?
To whom his hymns complain
Thy bait the gulls in thy sweet way?
 
  Tis thee, of course, to thy advantage thy pea ever mine;
  My hymns even greet this with some cheer,
  But within thine well


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Where from the big doth appear swift-footed or spooked?
So desire her like to stay where thou sits,
Or whilst her husband is wracked,
Sets him in control of her day,
Supposed of constant strife, slumbers down to defeat,
Full of weigh
Not water in mud, but honey in the eyes;
Since him forsworn out much of mud,
Full stopfasts him full on promiscuous ambush,
The greeing her back again makes him grieve
Beggared to linger in extreme stillness,
Such is his woe,

