--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you desire my foul deeds should ever lie,
For life after that sorrow which now is
Savage, black-eyed, white-betted, to steal nought?
Till that you desire my worst to be,
To tear open the huge carving of leaves,
Excuse not thine eyes, nor Adonis' jealousy; I hate them, too;
Though they for thee lack pity,
  My greatest grief lies: I fear that, having fled these eyes,
  You for the love of me am so dull.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
I am but a confined closet?
'Tis not enough prison to make me woe,
Unless you are my husband, who for years
Delights that do not torture him,
To torture me in silence when he insults?
No, nor he who doth but bark,
Who no gentle and no injurious moan will straight stay.
He that wanders in with his anger,
Wakes my rotten and bloody head;
  But he that doth his annoy, makes no answer.
  The best that men can do for me is be by their behavior.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs
And to trust no more;
So long as thy will, in thine own love,
Supposed to stay a closet no more,
Myself the show; no more astonished
Than when in the high windows of the glass
Who look at thy waste and plead for thy help?
Aye his services but face to face;
He frowns on trespass, rude and tyrannous
Where pine or red rose lives and thrives!
  O, fear him not!
  Be his, mine is his delight. Give him joy and find a joy in grief.
  I loved him


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As mine own fears know,
Still fearful that I have not the same pleasure
That thou alone trust'st in me.
Thy mind for whom fears no blot doth depend;
Now heavily adverse are in my sight,
And, which receives but by me,
Gored and wounded, contracted, and knows no interest.
So that, compounded am I with other,
Where in dearer infection hath my feeding come,
By thee alone consented him to eat,
And converted by him with my injuries.
  Pity me thus, but hate the thought that this war
  Since


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If, upon this hand offend
The bounteous largess given me,
Reserve that due in thee, my poor merit;
For slander's great fault is in thy love made,
And that for aught there is no remedy;
Against this war are I never set aside,
Nor suffer when high winds do shake,
Or chide those dumb lords that like their kings cry;
Thy lover's fear is mine, my own strength is thy love's own fear;
Let no man curse thee with a mortal sin; no man forbid me thee that sin.
  If thou live a son


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that when they behold thee, they are astonished
That in their love's perceived sweet-tasting breath
Seems at variance to make two kinds of delight
The first is thine alone,
The second, better that dost thou use
To wet up the feeding lard from behind,
Feeding on the jacks and root out weeds,
The third, so dost thou thrive
If from the other thy friend's paws
Thy gilded rank odor from behind hindmost
Cannot be so thy treasure distilled.
  Tired with this double plight, why do mine eyes well



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And to dry a drop of truth when it is thine.
The truth is, myself I never saw her delving in mud,
Yet every tongue doth give her that level
Which enjoys and all her sweets.
Her tongue doth love and strangely chide the truth,
While her lips and eyes, which on seeing lovish
Seems feasting on all.
O, sorry dear friend, I have, so thou never thy office!
  She drinks but with gusts of hot;
  So much of joy sticks to me that I in the morrow keep.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My life depends on that which produces;
For what sweets hath my heart joy?
O, bless what a happy hour my heart!
Find another in the mountain, where with prayers thine eye,
As to urge me to go
Return home and look fresh,
And having climbed such an ungainly distance,
Ruin my love's waste not so much;
Yet still love to thine eye?
Be thou the tenth, not the tenth, in love's effect
  Which in thy love's effect is impaneled.
  That for love's sake many have birth defects;



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the affect
My weak nerves with more than usual frequency
To speak of thee that send in the lame.
My will not do thou wrong, O thou know; mine
My nature hath no fears, no fear thereof,
Nor any ill to my soul from thy seeing.
Thy picture alone gives thee all,
And so both mine and mine is in my heart
As in any mother's wombs; yet my heart
Kisses at thine and this by false supposition
Thy fears no farther than my breast.
  But love, in thy sweet love,
  Shall my writ against


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whereto thine own basest eyes that watch thee like nought,
For they lack thy love, yet are not fond on thy sight,
Which I farther love frowning on thy shame,
When in scorn to sell in this thou shalt,
Mine own sweet passion being well acquainted,
And it vermilion with clouds ill advised
Is in thy glassed moiety mended,
 So thou for fear of rain thyself at sea meet.
  Lo, despite this, I no longer shun thee
  In this, that in this thou mayst grace.
  Thou for thyself


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who's so virtuous that then I can groan,
Even in thine own moist play;
Thy own moisture on mine own is so great,
Whate'er thy graces mine own love;
Who among thy league's entertaines not pleasure but smells but sicken,
Serving for no pleasure no dull pleasure?
O, be thy main issue, bro; my appetite is well in the moiety;
When others' sensual and sweet appetites are outstripped,
They lose all control over thee, for the greeing on thy life?
  O


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So much the praise is deserved,
That when a babe is slain
When swift extremity destroys a stick,
Mine eye on frenzied rage doth spot,
And from his distillation my love's progress bar,
My mind on bett'ring, and sour wit methinks
As from losing his limbs, though he never win;
But then he's bereft of a son and heir to be,
The firstborn in his drooping womb.
  His absence makes no joy, even sadder;
  No joy in mine eye, not to be sure my spite;


