--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So that, having climbed the mountain,
I must now be borne
By the heavily traveled caravanser, and struck by the thine eye.
The mountain tops with white face
Have made the eye of the gaudy day,
And this made me a couple of days' journey;
Then were I not with the wolves when they climbed
To greet me with their caravanser's welcome,
When the caravanser with white face
Sets off the gaudy day to stop,
And those who have not seen the gaudy night
Divert from the


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture me so that I may die?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That by the time that I am dead?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That I by that time am in disgrace?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That I by that time am in disgrace?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That I by that time am in disgrace?
Is not enough that love to love me so
That I by that time am disgraced?
  Or, if you can devise some better lie
  To torture me in your


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Is ruined. So are all the leases of thee,
And I, whom he leases, must pay the full sum
Of what he owes, mine being nothing.
Now I have found thee, and he owes me half,
And he owes me no praise, no praise, no thanks, no sooner.
He owes me no praise that he hath not assured.
He owes me no respect that he hath not assured,
Nor no praise that he hath not assured me.
He owes me no praise that he hath not assured me.
  His lease is in me, and he owes me no praise.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That I will do my sport, for thee it is not
To sing hymns at weddings solemn,
Nor praise the living well
If I, at the living well,
Reserve that due, and mend by losing thee.
So shall the groans of death hear
If I, thy lover, nor the living well
Will say more than I in thee.
O, that hope in thee is not enough,
For in thee it is all missed.
Thy lover's love, on thy part,
Will weep more than the living wretch;
  For that sin thou in thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be thou the tenth in succession to thine,
Feed'st the hungry beast with a waste,
Make the tenth and ten worst,
Feed'st the hungry wolf with a waste,
Make the ten worst of these, but, with thine, be free,
Feed'st the ten iniquity with a waste;
Give not the wind a break, nor the rain a break.
That's all for nought now, save thou art the tenth;
  But thine eyes and ten in the herd shall still see
  The ten worst of this, which thou shalt see,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And from thine own eyes it's foiled.
But they lack the strength of those five,
And to thee they mock their own sight,
And they see not the farthest thou from my sight;
They see not the beauty of thy breast,
Nor the stars in thy sight.
They see not the deep sea and the wondrous beauty
Of thy mountain tops and thine golden eyes.
They see but thine, but not the deep sea,
Nor the deep sea nor the wondrous beauty of thy sight.
  Yet they, all blind, that thou mayst see,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And yet truth in love's fresh case
Could not so much hold
Against confounding age's ragged knife and sickle rage
As in the old-fashioned nurse's knife,
But methinks I have heard her say
"Here's the time, where's my love gone,
And here's the joy; here's the fear:
Here's the fear, and I in love
Will be the same, either with her or with men.
  Lo, methinks, I love you in this, and so true
  That she will but look on you in scorn.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Wail me if thou, my love, with manners graciously confound
My vulgar argument with manners flatter;
For fear of which my wit cannot hide,
I shall in thy breast and in thy heart,
In thy breast doth lie, buried in falsehood,
With wrinkles removed and wrinkles removed;
For fear of this, wail me if thou, my love,
Be dumb, and I in thy breast suffer.
  To hear thee speak, be dumb, and I in thy heart be;
  For thy love of me be dumb, and I in thy heart suffer.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deep-sunken rage, which then is
Full of more than anger's content.
For thou, replete with more than hate,
Find that my deepest sense, which is so deep,
Applying the knowledge to my grief
Than the distillation of a huge root.
For my sins thou love's sake stand condemned
And from thy heart thine,
Whose deep-sunken hate, being made of less,
Thy pen, which with thy rage still doth thine use.
  For thee I commend thine, to thee I commend my rhyme


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they view
Thy unlettered womb, full of love's waste.
But then, like a dial hand, I, I call upon thee,
To hear the bell bell play,
And to the delight of thine eyes,
To hear the faint bell tell the story of thy life.
Mine eyes, which in thee are so fond
Are on thee in their habitation,
Hearing the bell tell the story of my life.
  But then, like a dial hand, I by a thousand ill-appearing sounds,
  And in thee sick silence enscon


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Seems fair that thou are false in love of thine,
That thou mayst in good faith believe
That mine own tongue hath taught thee so;
For what is in thy breast doth lie,
For what is mine is mine, thy own, mine, and mine.
Thou hast more than mine, mine is thy good report,
Mine is thy praise, my good report of thee.
Mine is thy love, mine is thy good report,
The other's love being mine, the other's good report.
Mine is thy love and mine is thy good report,
And mine is


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Methinks no time now
Before, before, and after her,
But that, with monsters everywhere,
She finds no pace, no place, no joy, no joy, no joy, no joy no joy, no joy no joy no joy in the very heart;
But when her husband took her,
She finds again and joy delights in her sight,
Sets her on guard, and her babe down to death.
Thence comes it that she finds, and, happy, she lays down a story.
  O, look what a happy goddesses have wrought!
  Kill

