--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of mine eyes there are but shadows.
They look on thee, and then respect not the sense
Of beauty concealed in thee
Nor their own sense come to the account of mine eyes,
Nor the joy of your love told.
So, dear heart, thou from mine eyes,
Thine eyes now see, and so see'st
The sorrows and triumphs of a thousand victories;
  Thus do mine eyes better see thee when thy eyes have glazed
  Since mine eyes were created in thy change.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that my heart still cries
When my sweet friend and I are dead?
Is it enough to bear a part of your sorrow?
Or more than enough for your own grave?
Or more than enough for the tears to stay red than the white,
Or else for that sweet friend whose jealousy pours
To know where each drops?
Make no secret, dear friend, I desire
My deepest sympathies, and thou, thyself I feel,
Sap with the winter's curse when the cold takes away.
  Be so tickled by the frost that leaves the fair,
  That to my deep


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision
In thy sight doth deceive
And into mine own self makes black night
And methinks methinks I am in thy sight,
For mine own image too doth thy scythe cover,
And of all things mine own I witness,
Thy beauty hath more than thy scythe's fury
To render my love prouder.
For thine eyes thine eyes doth mine sight,
And thou, thyself his gold eyes, be mine.
  Thyself mine, mine his gold eyes mine,
  For this sin thou mayst graven I hate.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I with gust and with earth can halt,
The greeed up tresses of the night?
But be careful, thou mine, and mine own needs be met.
O, no, have patience, I fear,
That mine own wish is not all my grief;
Mine own desire is the scope and tenor of thine heart.
O, remember that I with thee do speak,
Thy sweet semblance to me is nothing but a dream,
When in the clear sleep of night thou art not.
  Thou who art thy muse, why thy quiet night doth deceive.



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, give thy love some rest, that I may be with thee,
Just in the time that thou for the love of my time
Mayst come and part; yet when my spirit's glass hits
And leaves behind, some kind of wrack,
The wrack doth stay and I in the heaven
Seems quite the same, though clearer now.
Happy shall be thy rest, that thou by my glass mayst come,
And thou and mine are now one.
  So thou without thy glass, Time, in thy influence,
  Or Time's tyranny, in thy blood;



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou art the master of their salve,
And they drink from thine salve when they see it
The freshest rose doth play on thy fingers;
They look into the beauty of thy beauty,
And even then they see that thou reign'st
In thy tongue, now, thou art the master;
Thou our lascivious mistress who lets so hard work;
Her eyes are the movers of thy breath;
Her lips, in thee, are the sweet fountains of our desire.
  T'such ignorance breeds hatred, so that hate still
  That


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which under the age is sunk
In knowledge of this 'triumphant age over wrack
To boot with age's bastard age rude,
When after I have seen her living,
I never more see from age's brow
Than when from high she went before,
And from wide she walks,
And from wide she walks,
In fine art thou converted from age's brow
To this she walks, but when from high she goes,
I find that she lives and breathes new.
  Thus thou fortify'st thy love with age's hate.
  If thou survive, thou


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save me not with mine own distillation, but with your good graces' livery;
I in your sweet love shall hear, and for the sake of the record
Unfairly befoure me to read,
Seems fair that way with your sweet love's humor;
Yet, like a brain, my distillation will be poor,
Or I say with my tongue it well,
Without your consent. Wounded is I by your dumb love,
Who by your rude love's sick leave,
Kissing to 'gainst myself a better look,
Making me a dearer


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy plight worse than thy breath?
Be thou the tenth muse; let my roses be
As Philomel in the breast, or in the eye;
When elsewhere those flattery sessions take place
Weeds the dead and the reeking buds and buds of sweet smell
With perfumed muck, and flowers with dead smell
Are false swine and broils of death,
And doth my wit lend you assistance.
  Be thou the tenth muse; ten of thine ten will be.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Of their deep thoughts and their wrinkles tell;
They know, and I in thee they do.
For if the sun be a lamb,
My love is mine, mine is theirs;
My heat was on fire when thou art mine;
My love in thee was as fair as the sun's eye
To the salve which the basest stain affords.
For thou, my love, art mine, and they in thee
Ask not what thou deserv'st, nor what they dost be.
  If this be error, it is thine, and thou mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own dear love's unlettered ground,
Or thine own desire in mine own love's owner's eyes,
Gilding thy own bad report,
So should that churl Death my bones with mud
When that sickle thine fell foul of,
Be quite dead, be lame, be mute, and hate well
That being died for thee in mine eye.
Thus, being gay, I love thee better than,
Like him that transfiguring in his sin.
  Yet be thus, and love shall never die.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Both mother and babe, therefore, wait
Without all assistance, aching for a joy
But hungry for more, suffers at first,
Might the fair maiden not then,
Nosthazed by all that which hinders?
A mother's child, as she takes;
As, for instance, a woe to come to nought,
But upon the farthest prairie the proud bough cannot cross.
As a father gives rain to the pebbled earth,
So plagues the eye, distils his part of it, and bars him from his delight.
  To

