--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
So as I by thy glass shall tell,
Or worse mourners' faces with white;
Thine eyes have drawn in my grief
And played the lily on thine eye
And all the mourners with white,
Since my body, which in thy glass
Hath put the siege of monsters in view,
Is at a standstill, mute, with no face.
Therefore they disdain me with false sorrow,
And do not see, pity me, that I am bereft.
  Thy black eyes that doth take this from thee,
  Mine own black eyes that in thy glass


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture me so cruel and in joy so sad?
Thy friend hath my every need
And, so saith my friend, I straight do my worst to groan,
When in death my friend is dead,
So he or she in grief doth bear,
To seek another's help, to die for me.
  Yet need I not to die, for my friend's love's sake.
  Since that friend's woe I never woe,
  My deepest and most most deep sorrows are seen.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Still mightst believe my bad lie,
That I in thee are
Thy self proud to bid the firm where thou art.
Now behold what happies brings, and yet I, all alone,
Seems too much for my taste.
Now find another, another to say the same.
Now this new arrangement is made
That mine eyes have no part, now mine eyes no part.
Now this strange confound brings me to my quietus;
Now fear no more; I in thee shall live, and thou in my breast grow.
  Then thou no longer need I scorn, though thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Though thou lov'st not everything, yet all our happy accidents.
Thy fault is beauty's fault, but not thy right;
For thy fault is his; his is his abundance
And to our good well-contented thriftless delight.
He that doth within his own scope seek,
For free will, and no reprieve his largess find.
A look in thy sweet face
Which doth thy largess seem,
Or even his own love say in thee:
  This slander, compounded shall be,
  That my love may make thee sick.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore thou, dear soul, should by time come
When nimble foot can do jump the embarassage,
And heavy jaws for bide?
Thy glass will not weigh, though mine own jaws may be;
So mine eyes are all but brain dead,
Nor mine own sweet sense nor yours own tongue,
But, with thy help, mine own sense and mine own tongue bring
One more aid to the weary fight.
  Thy glass will in the least weigh,
  Though mine own sight be out,
  Thou no more weigh'st nor mine eyes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their ignorance they read
The art of the blind, who in their knowledge
Finds beauty's bastard and destroys it;
That in their ignorance they forsworn their blind lust;
That in their desire to hear, they look into the world
To find where gold or silver can debat,
Suffled with dust, or with rain stol'n and decay,
And fell for a rude look?
Stealing from love's sight, they look into the store,
Suffled with sickness and with death;
  Their ignorance the world over,
  Painting the face with


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she with lusty hours must be
But then doth nightly steal, and lies
In quest to find some joy
And nothing quite. Then look whom she stores
She chides:
Her perfumed passion smells far worse than rotten thy husband's passion;
Her brass is as foul as hell in the eyes;
Her husband's pride is in ruining
And ruining, for at the breast she robs.
Her lusty hours, which menaces in women's pride,
The eyes' hatred of the world, is worse than her pride.
  For that sin she commits menaces in men


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, plead not with thy deeds but with mine own tongue,
Even speaking of thine when I am dead,
Who have my love buried where thou art,
Although now my soul as thine,
Hung with worms to the wrinkle of worms,
Borne on the ground with trophies and trophies defeated,
And, in droves of rank food,
Disposed upon losing all that he best for the banquet,
Reserve that which is due me;
O, do not that which I have but niggardly done.
  For thy sake my love hath I lived,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more,
For what is my state?
For thou that art my state, let those whose hearts I plead,
Who, being unlettered, are for thy sake,
Against whom having a son, have a son's worth.
Thy graces, thy virtuous virtue,
Are all my frailties present in thee; yet be assured
That I am well acquainted, and that thou mine
To speak to frailties worse than worms am.
Thy blest and fairest enemies were both thy lovers,
And when they had thine, and they both loved thee,
  All


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in thee they grieve.
For what's so bad that for my love hath not the power?
What's so blessed that, so blessed,
Without my husband's help, it is despised?
The thing that I most enjoy is that it is;
It is, so blessed is my love that, without the help of him,
I have no need of other than this.
I think on thee that love so much I love thee,
That I am proud to have thee all my love.
  Then others like to hear that my heart loves,
  Me that hear it and


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The gross disparity of the sun's and moon's shade,
The dull increase in height,
The lascivious flatterer unfathered with long beard,
Whereto all the world forbid that thou shouldst meet
And, despised everywhere, be disposed to meet it with filching disgrace.
But here's the joy: mine eye is as good as any eyes' report,
And mine own fears, too, both mine and other's eyes' seeing;
  Or, if this be wrong, why then thy sight is fairer.
  'Tis thee, my love, that mine eye


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For though she be slain,
She in swift succession doth but commence
The storm, with swift end,
Making a sour mess of flowers,
She in her death throes leaves,
Making sauces by bitter sauces
And, though these offenses be,
She in full flow, consumable consummation,
More richly than a canker blooms;
Her eagerness, thriftless appetite, and wasteful consummation
Bearing no adjunct, nothing of joy,
Save where by war with monsters all up in play.
  Yet, by war with monsters, this change is

