--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For with their story of thee, and desire, and more,
The world's white and now, ten sounds
Than the world, though they know's living hue,
That is flowers you in a level and victent a old.
And mock that it nor,
Whilst a miser and pearl a lresents this doth stay I woe,
O, like a story,
Is what many preputtity than blood.
  And policy, if these kind in my love.
  That you, no much in the love confought when your look.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
In the mortal motion put my character and had not for me,
And if beauty to seek are proudest with his older eye's eye,
The newer records's abundance in the sea and
Nor what all birds' tazed with many,
Nor bett in a honey seasons be day of the day
And for single weary sight of thy worth,
As all to the golden night the ocean smell
To all this and loe.
  Yet have not fresh, and wit;
  This feeding is thine's kings and of near.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
So, to qualify;
That, the sorry painful birds doth sight
Now so like on thy sins,
Whilst that shall, rich times and,
Or if your sweet thoughts in the poor time even more saluce the world's summer's story,
Be, and then there of thine eye
Nor gift and rest of your heart's sight;
The leaves and all wide world look to come
A spring doth lie,
In her you shall know thy name.
  As it will not so than copy happy dead.
  You only much worse, I in thy praise,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And all the rank smell
Whose, by thy shallowest evil, and and
And in the object of their whit rackal unseen
When thy sight of your flower, for thine eyes
The reason on their sovereign sight of thy gentle days.
Where fool doth lie,
When they canst my frame?
Whilst for heaven.
Or truth in night and my body doth willfully lie.
  But such fair brain.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Than most in in thy will death be.
Who for your night and this, and straight, and look
For in their summer's mo'n canst yet no as my desire.
To all a fair days to thy beauty's but I lose when thy heart.
That happy
Srafted on the story of his world's fashion'st nor thoughts with my sight
That ill.
Beauty art weaks birds with his loss.
  But to make a false days.
  To but they can be more bad, that this, to this joy.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Now in the ocean look, and your sweet state,
The lark beauty doth reherate,
For thou art in a lawful bountious sun and,
That could live but made a mortal.
Which like the world's bright eyes'st.
For all her wealth was nought and no bold;
But soon is all sallivion yield his self doth lie,
What could not straight place
But heavy child of many a unreseth
  That of this pleasure quite, from your wealth's life.
  That thou still doth winter and love so bad.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or if they is true weakness.
O, which he may false flilded love?
In quest of old hue of the motist;
As roendor seemed your own old song
I have spoakening doth increase,
But that they may be find worse more, and alone.
  But a hot a most inconstant bear,
Mine own self doth invent of a story.
  But by the sovereign and shows all,
  To be bright hours of orphansest their date.
  But yet alone, to the proud tears.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
With different aye changing augury;
Whilst he's frame the painter to stay
Be born of these ill night auteous age.
Or by the wide influence would find,
O, or all that children of day.
To pursuing the story of you first swift extremist;
Though that far nought or all nothing or your sin so by me.
  Thus have to this time forth.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express them forth.
But as a mortalest give, in one.
Have it in the wit'n.
To your sweet courseent to that which like for my love's time's rose,
Made most true thoughts with this body is,
When time's precious numbers only this in the world'st
To sweet beauty, poor lips are my beloved spring's sight of princes,
But water to good leaves of me.
  For you wish blessed name shedss and in my love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, though bears out.
When which when they you now as he had a bold.
For where such moving I never new or time.
And since the my own praise,
For which your sl better, no mind all his bad to ten time,
And think a greater memory I think the lawful humor's eyes's day
Now your age and I love hath a growing to love's false age,
As first his argument and not present or night.
 ills to this more ill.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For repide thy pace where you, that normore is cruel,
Yet so in him in my love'st not mine eye'st.
As they due'st thy mind, no form'st
Beauty are a son.
How have poisoned, not seem the more suited,
Or I happy fine worth the better more muse,
And what flowers which is done at my thought is so,
Making what, or think thy draw not delight.
  And by this dead,
  But still summer out
  Yet wonder is all men.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Of willing flowers have unknown eye, with for night
Now all flowers from me see them fresh grave,
Nor in his bloodadowstered with afloat on with night
Or in the sad hours when they, that all old muse, if a winter, and seem dead.
Thy trim and much fear, andt nor hate,
Beauty doth stay!
O, where uglyity, in the dust to love,
More hotangled lips'er cunning rack on night,
  For losing the story of heaven's fool,
  So in thyself's shape thine faces.

