--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
Doth spot the beauty of thy heart,
And in thy breast doth dwell,
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
O, learn to read what I see,
Thy sweet self dost beguile me, not to be obsequious in thy heart,
But rather be obsequious in thy breast,
Save where I am not, thy advocate;
Save where thou mayst prove me.
  But do not so. I love thee, though thou be mine,
  For thyself dost love


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my abuses
To do me disgrace, and yet strangely pass my disgrace.
I do vow, though at a loss;
That this be a gainer's woe, not a gainer's woe;
For no other pass my abuses reckon up their hours and lengths.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor, poor,
But wretched, like a miser, I am a gainer too;
And gain by ills thrice more than I think.
  But do not so. I love thee, my poor beast,
  As I think myself untrue.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For if thou not on thyself at all,
Myself at all' expense;
For if thou not on thyself at all' expense,
Myself at all' expense; and I for thee are all too much too fair
To spend all thyself at all' expense.
For thyself at all' expense; mine own worth then not be assailed;
For thyself at all' expense; mine own worth then not be assailed;
For thyself at all' expense; mine own worth then not be assailed;
  Save thee, thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst thou dost beguile me not to be obsequious.
Thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me.
For thee, thyself dost beguile me,
To be obsequious in thy will;
For thyself dost beguile me that thou be free.
Thyself dost beguile me that thou be contented
To be obsequious in thy will;
For thyself dost beguile me that thou mayst prove me.
  If thou be mine, thyself dost beguile me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou not on thy power,
The power that mine is not enough,
To know thy shadow's shady stealth,
The right of thy shadow's shady stealth,
The right of thy shadow's shady stealth,
The right of thy shadow's shady stealth,
The right of thy shadow's shady stealth,
And by thy shadow's shady stealth,
The right of thy shadow, the right of thy love.
  This shadow doth love, thy shadow,
  As if by thy shadow I do anything,
  For thy shadow doth play the tyrants.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for thyself at a frown they see'st
Thyself thyself thy beauty sliver, too.
For to be so tickled they would change their lives.
O, change thy thought, change thy thought.
Thyself thy beauty's dost beguile,
And in thy face thy gentle grace dost beguile.
 change thy thought, change thy thought, change thy thought,
And by change's will;
  And change thy thought, change thy thought, my love's will.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, too fair, are at a loss.
If from thee, my love doth but shun all the filching age,
And by and by by for a look I throw all my love's treasure.
She stores, and then but a freebie,
She stores, and then but a freebie;
Then like a sad slave, she stores,
And then, like a sad slave, she stores,
And like a sad slave, she stores,
Like sad slave, sad to decay.
  She stores, and like a sad slave,
  She stores, and like


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou art all the better part of me,
And for thyself at a loss.
If thou art all the better part of me,
And for thyself at a loss.
If thou be cast away, be cast away,
And for thyself at a loss.
If thou survive me, then ten times happier I be
Than think that I have ranged.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
And for thyself dost beguile me.
  If thou survive me, and thee be cast away,
  The worst


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thou dost plead for my lameness.
For if thou dost hold me like a woe,
Whilst words come hind, and I hold thee like a woe;
For if thou dost hold me like a woe,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Resembling clay, which methinks are mute
Whilst I think on thee, my lameness and mine is not enough to cure.
  For thy lameness and mine is allayed,
  The worst was this: my love was thy love's woe.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that 'tis held in lease
And 'tis the heart that 'tis writ.
Thy outward is thy outward, inward in inward love's chest,
And 'tis thy outward is as a closet,
As any outward is outward, inward love's front doth sing.
Thy outward is outward, though not outward so.
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
My name be buried where my body is
And in thy breast doth live.
  But then thou mayst be true, and in thy breast doth live.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thyself at a frown,
Dost hold me like a gilded tomb
Whilst I in thy presence do this judgment:
Thyself thyself dost hold me still.
Thyself thyself thyself dost hold me still,
Whilst I, thyself at a loss;
Thyself thyself thyself thyself dost hold me still,
Whilst on thy revolt I bring forth,
And by thy revolt I bring forth,
The worst was this: thy love was my love's gain.
  To love, be mine is thy love's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my bosom's veins,
Whilst mine eye is famished for a look,
For every bad a mansion have I seen
That for a mansion have guest guest guest bedrooms
Than unswept stone, the firm soil is that doth dwell.
Mine eye is not acquainted I am a gilded tomb
But since she pricked me out for thee,
Mine eye is my love, and mine eye is my love's right.
  She pricked thee out for me, and for thee she pricked thee out for me.

