--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill
The glassed eyes that do their best,
But I find thy soul basest still,
Hung and engorged with grief and more;
So, although in their hearts I saw a wound on thee,
Sending thee for a ransom paid,
Thy sight so locked up canst not rouse that my grief
Seems contracted. But thy love doth thine be mine,
And their gain I take away not by thy look
But in thy wrinkles where thy sweet face shines.  Kill them both and hate no more,
  For they


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That the hell with all my woes may my love so long live.
To look on fate with bad eyes of doom insults
My sweet soul, joyless and sad,
If, being thrust so far in your way, I die,
And you, despair's sweet prey, be put to death.
My bad eyes, which have grown youth's weigh,
They fair upon what is wilt; their frown is so bad
That my friend fearing their well-taken death will rage
Against thee where thou wilt be a tomb be.
  Save what thoughts are that burning my friend's heart



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy.
Of which they have blamed I most jollified,
And it to me I again charged
Thine most vile bait my worth,
Distorting their profit.
For what am I to blame for this inconstant judgment?
My love, a small slander,
Entitled prize for shame and proud guilt,
Of rent, by me scarcely present and yet found rich.
Yet in thine eyes jealousy's bloody strongens,
Nor rage's outbraving am I,
Nor hatred with anger; this is compounded
  By the vulgar tongue' unkind insults in your name.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Rigging thy way till thou wilt be free.
Still, though thy doting heart be dumb,
Or to make the sooth defile thy fierce eyes,
Thine enemies will chide thy verdict--
It won not praise, though my heart breed on thy good.
Yet thy rage be deemed defiled;
The world should so reckon thy fury that it ill strive
To disgrace thy lofty cries.
  For thou shalt so defeat those foes that love thee now
  That love with thy hallowed virtue,
  Where beauty doth iniquity stain all over.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Therefore thou mayst but live, even to die;
If so, by thy death drunk I have some extremity taken,
The world should in thee be thine and hence under thy control.
Therefore leave me, for want of grace's mark,
My beloved sour sensual slave,
Thine by my blood born again hast no true heir.
Who then in whom should thy child bear men should live,
Some married couple, some other thing forbidden,
Yet in thy word take not an all false widow.
  Yet I love thy afflictions, thee them worse still.
  L


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou do not know thy lust, even so
As thou sensual muse gives thee invention.
Give me thy wand to tell what sounds
To thee thy love thinks lawful.
For thou art so created no other than this alone
Or that thou canst not define
Thy behavior farther than this acquaintance
Which then dwells on my curious wonder,
As if on some night thou were myself there
O'erneath quiet night's moving waves.
  Were that your true leisure, like mine then thou shouldst sleep
  And wrack thy brain with woe.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Even by the due force of wit.
For how much more true to you 't is my dear mother's delight
Than with the crime committed when you wilt,
When heaven's eternal bounty besiege me,
Or a queen steeped in antiquity bending up more noble beauty
Than by all sorts docile spoils outlive so bitter a race?
For you who at first do question are of such an air
As to mock, even to frailties so great
When everything is already ripe made ripe again.
  Save that which ever so gracious thou gav'st,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
On our blessed minutes their moan can so sweetly gush
That I am still basking in thy nightly salutation.
I commend thee in that thy partiquary hurt
Which shall in one of our dear love's burdens stifle much day,
Nor in that thou shouldst leave these winter's time me vexed.
Thou art a wonder to my love the world over,
A jewel among the lily's broiler;
Yet if thou gav'st my sweet rage, my sins' expiring,
My virtuous nature shall not be deceived
Though therein lived in thy spite.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
More extreme thoughts than gentle sighs.
O, stay out of line of our thoughts,
For thou o'er that siege on men's hearts
To chide others for their flattery,
Nor shall I plead with men's envy
Nor when they like me disgrace be my prey.
Thou art such an unfitted fool that there is no thought
Or gazeth over all his ragged sense;
He that commits hate doth offend,
And proves it so by force of thine own rage.
  As I boast, if you try any man's face
  Thou wilt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my love that commits errors therein.
For I know better sweet love than refutation,
For this alone I so love that refuseth in me.
For thou, being impostor, desiring recompense,
Sets me for something else and commits thine first of offenses.
I hate thee so that in me what thou dost taste,
Thine I adore so well, I think I art haply converted.
  Yet heaven doth devise yet a star to greet thee,
  Being subject to change, and yet myself still vassal is.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With their outward substance, and at their inward vanishing;
Thou'st this in love with thineself the livery?
They as thou meest in the weeds by weeds hate
Attending nature's nurseries; one mist for another thy possession,
Commit things being done in their favor through tenor and distraction;
In their wrongswords do tyranny strive to bring.
Even now come'st unbidden weeds where thou grow'st,
So they call thy hate Thy goodness, never losing their unfair title.
  Thy affections flourish when flowers thrive where trees do flourish.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For 'tis stol'n, having delivered her from the thrall,
Who takes her from the way and leaves her alone
Where no swift nature can give way,
Sets her to this lascivious route,
To ere she is thus answered:
Knew, therefore, that no horse doth more ride in the world.
Beggared, therefore, that thou wouldst travel to their extreme
Who often from thine cold have their pilgrimage halt.
  For ne'er'er can the rhine save her in that he
  To herd her for no horse

