--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of lascivious lascivious or obsequious look,
Delves the parallels in the tongue that more hath expressed
Thy lover's tongue, which rhymers praise quite.
If the question be asked, "Which tongue that more hath expressed his praise,"
For not having thy tongue, sweet muse, over wrack,
Suff'ring at the height of happier men."
I grant, if thou, wilt, I be cast away
For ever more praises to thee.
  This let my love, dear love, be then my love's w


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
And to my frailer knife do it wrong:
For it looks like a hot Jade
Which heavily he takes from you, but his quick knife
His quick thought leads him to the ending day
Cheered and checked with my bed,
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me?
Or bettered that my bed be well-contented
Which keeps all my frailer deeds to score.
  Yet him for this wide universe knows no art
  That fears no blot of either's rage.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not paid.
O, no! let him vassalage me be obsequious,
Than that audit of thy heart's report,
To find out shames and praises, tender churl, all tenants to the bier with whom I am sufficed.
I shall not be obsequious in thy heart's thought
To run an ill report on thee, though in the least of all my badNESS.
  If he be absent, and no more shall I taste,
  The sad account of the days, and nights,
  For thee, thy good report no whit d


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, that dost hold thee.
That dost thee, too, will be disposed,
To keep an adjunct to thee.
Than niggard answer the rudely thine be,
A dearer birth than thine due, though more than thine's due.
Thy good turns, thyself more blessed might,
For grant, love, thy sweet love's sweet self to shun the thought.
  Thy estimate, thy estimate, thy estimate, and thy dear report.
  This should be a joy, not be lettered that bring forth.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What old beauty's face that beauty may dye
Thyself thy sweet self thy budding name with some ugly stain.
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use
If thou thyself thy shadow had some wrinkle graven there.
Yet if from thee no more can speak,
Thyself thy name be buried, my deeds must not be shown,
For I can no praise praise devise;
For thou alone kingdoms of hearts must I taste;
  And thy image shall not be my love's flame
  Unless thou, thy picture shall ever live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what's new to speak, chide:
Thyself thy sweet self thy best is,
For but those children nursed with wanton lives.
Thy nurse, though that be no more fitted
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
Who's so fair, thy sweet skill, and in me behold,
Who with thy help are but store,
Whilst those children nursed, nursed, delivered from thee.
  This be thy good report, that on thy report,
  As I not sick of you do but show me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst for my love she hath no name.
Kind is she so fair whose beauty dyed?
She might be took
By my shallow deep vermilion in the vermilion of the roses,
So like a canker in the rose rose do vial
To mar the siren tears and tender moan of her lovers.
O, what a happy title do I find!
She may be straight though my verse,
But yet still keep in my love even there,
Whilst the worst is by thy help.
  But yet be contented when thou wilt prove me prove,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My verse, being extant,
Upon thy unkindness I cry: "What sort was in me that writ when thee that writ writ,
What strained touches rhetoric can lend. If thou wilt, be true, I say
That not for thy bewailed guilt cannot choose
My guilty muse, though much more bevel;
O, then be a satire to me, and yet be be cured;
That I will be true and straight,"
And then be cured of woe and wretchedness,
Like poison me, thou wilt be cured of woe and wretchedness;
  Drugs poison


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit.
A woman's tongue that hath thee is best
Than unswept, perhaps better expressed.
For it may be said that women's woe is more woe,
Richer than an all-eating fickle gazeth;
Lean penury on a woman's tongue
And like a dial hand do hush,
Whilst in the onset come; and then begins a journey in my verse
The farthest earth removed from thee,
Or, better, more, be it thy sweet self to love men.
  Then


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That 'tis the home of all-loving thoughts.
In me all too many lambs,
Grecian tires are painted new.
The lily I condemned for thy horse; the lily's tongue
Drawn after the hounds and the lays of the roses,
Hath put a spirit of youth in my tine ear,
And in me too many lambs do contend,
As with a willing patient.
  Yet, like a beggar, I never do dispense:
  O, learn to read what silent love hath writ.
  To learn from love and hate of


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The marigold that drank the lascivious eisel;
The tine-sunken tongue that saith more,
Than unswept in thy tongue dost sing
And scarcely write with thee that tongue
Of faults that far more hath passed, than in my verse can sit.
Thou that art the perfect, sweet and lovely argument
A true soul, though not acquainted,
A sad slave, who for a joy doth live.
  To be a true soul, despite my many,
  If all thy good report, thou wilt prove none.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, keep me, though mounted on the stage,
Whilst I like nothing, keep mine eye out of the tillage of your time.
That I never saw a goddess go;
To give full a vassal bound to my boot,
Whilst this heavenly goddesses like a worthless boat,
Like to pluck them where they are.
On such triumph of the very best
I make my love engrafted to this store;
Of your sweet vassalage I make one.
  To leave me thou hast the vassal bound to bear all thy love.

