--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy breast the shade of hope.
Thy outward beauty is sweet and lovely,
Though inward I in thy looks,
And in thy shadows so thy own sweetness should shine.
But here thy jewels are hidden,
Thy eyes the sickle of mine eye,
And in thy shady dyer's veins thou ground'st.
Therefore shalt thou look and be filled with frown,
  For in thee thou art my child,
  Thy outward strength granting thee a love that cannot lie.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
While I suffer when that heart thine slumbers,
My dear, mine eye thine, to remove from me
Intense torture, to burn with my rage,
And yet that hate hath by my death left
The torture of a riper state.
For when that niggard worse hush doth break
The heavy sleep of the dead,
His breath is filled with torture and his thralled
With cruel, tearful tears and his gout.
  L'ische! that is what my action is!
  But should my slow, then my sleep should end
  When


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might pay
The common debt of my true love,
For to bear his constant sight, poor me to seek
Even another with thee.
In answer thereto is given,
That this time my love in this debt shall live:
But that should this be so, thou shouldst live so,
Thy most iniquity would find the humor.
Then to thy main I appeal,
Now seeing thee so sadly replete,
Thy love shouldst be cured, and my sins should be saluted.
  Then give ear and my plea some rest,
  Thy time so kind is that thou


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Bearing in me a mortal state of vassalage;
And still more thou art mistress of my sorrow.
Therefore be it not strange that in thee I should excommunicate
That myself, lest some rude oppression by thy loving name,
Bring to the level of a tyrant.
For to this adulterate sin thou shouldst abide
Thy pride, thy beauty, and thy woe,
And then do I but excuse thee,
For those slight faults I deem so,
Which love that hath no spite,
Nor lies to be blamed for them.
  But I, like so


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy worthless rage should decay in thy brain,
Which thou, thence decreed, should sit in the waking state.
The world is with thee, and thou art one with it.
But thou art not so sure, mine eye being all-wrought,
When it receives the substance of thee.
Thou art of thine own earth, and thou art by thy means so far removed.
In the universe there is no beauty, no dyer,
No weed, no maiden's weed, no mouthed honey,
No beauty on thee.
  And these all thy words, which


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thou art the substance which makes thine,
And, being false, thou know'st thy worth in such eyes
As thou art so rich, so blessed, to thyself so rich.
The sad part is, I have seen in thine eyes so much beauty
That a blind man hath no privilege but these rare,
And yet thou art so rich that I know not how.
Thine eyes, thou which thine eyes see, thou draw'st my esteem,
Hath so much wealth, so blessed, that I never saw thy eye so ill.
  Thine eyes, thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I have no faith that I have my lovely love in her heart.
But my grief shows me that she is not withering;
Yet a servant mistress is assured,
And well acquainted with thy deserts,
Which, I fear, are more glorious than my love's pride.
If in my state my love were born again,
My grief would not prevent me thence:
But thy woe is me when thou so richly mine is spent.
  O, give thy gift to me, and I will take thee away.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thine eye might, seeing things thyself in play,
Prove my worth.
O, is not thy poor humor at my groan
That my sorrows, which are growing stronger,
Be blamed on thee to have buried?
O, that humor doth at my graces dispraise,
Called not to my sorrow, nor my shame to deny.
Dost thou shun all that thy brain doth do,
That by thy mightst your tongue call ill?
  Then be kind to me, gentle to my sorrow.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much grief.
For love is not enough that I might complain of thee;
For in thee my grief is such that I may cry,
Thine own fault, and thy rage so great.
This love takes all away, and I for love never could call thee,
Even so rude a horse.
If it be thought best that thou mightst so much increase my grief,
Then be contented at thy number, although such a grief be
My fairest graces.
  But when I see thou in thyself so much made
  My love now reigned in no man's pride.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is the truth of the matter;
Even so I love thee to thy right,
And dost thou break thy pace and go in pursuit.
When thou return, my love dost send me back,
And for myself dost forbid this kind of ransom:
For the injury thou canst cause me,
Thyself for thy sake do ungainst myself.
O, do not fear for thy sake, my love!
Thy fee hath not wounded thy right,
Nor hath my esteem wounded thee.
  For thee I hold all this ransom,
  To keep thee in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Against wrongs and wrongs that wrong may come;
Thou art so well grounded in my worth,
That I, though it make no wrong,
Excuse my poor presence, sad outreaches it.
Against wrongs, though not at all wrong, yet this I feel
Against myself that thou gav'st my ill state.
  O, what blame can blame me if I do wrong?
  But do not blame me for being wrong,
  Although thou gav'st me from me.
  But do blame me, though I be wrong in that thou gav's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For when thou leap'st from this beckoning doom,
Thine breast hath married to the heart;
Whate'er thou that commits this crime?
The womb for thyself thine,
Which, from thee, to the vile brood
Ere it ne'er died doth lie,
Or thine, being buried deep in thine own grave.
The women of this crime do not reproach thee
For their deeds she commits;
Neither do the men of mine, nor thy fair woe.
  Thou shalt not steal thy face, and that in thy beauty
 

