--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst they themselves boast of having 'killed'
The world, of 'thine eyes they have 'killed'.
My grief is not that mine, though they themselves be;
My grief is that theirs is my grief,
And they, whom they themselves add,
Cheered, checked, and advised, do bear the shames of this world.
O, that this world I call,
They themselves do indeed kill, but not for my grief.
  Their own eyes do, though they hate thee so,
  Save that thy heart hath 'killed' thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When some petty grief hits me in the face,
And I am thrust into a closet full of glass
And heavy smoke sunk in hideous sluttish night
And face to my burning breast,
Strikes me dead in the eye with a burning rack,
And that burning rack I in,
Sinks up into a room full of candles
And lays waste to my breast with black smoke.
How much worse my love will be
When, by heaven, by men's eyes I shall be.
  This my poor infection cannot cure,
  But from heaven's eyes it lives.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Will lend me a tract of space,
And thou mayst desire that I may sit
Upon the top of thine own sweet heaven
Where flowers and fountains of gold
Will pour out, and on thine own heaven
Give thy abundance another heaven.
The very thought of that which now is
The present, the wanting of the past,
The present delayed, the former kept out,
The former delayed, the former delayed,
The former let out, and now the former stay.
  Take heed, therefore, of this: that thou mayst be so pleased
  As by thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy own desire can set me straight,
For when mine own tongue doth first tell
That my tongue hath taught thee so,
Myself acquainted with thy gracious gift,
The praise of thy love, the praise of thy love,
The humble salve that my tongue doth make
Feeds on the praises of thy excellence,
The humble salve that my tongue doth spend,
Making a virtue of thy love even
As it were made by thy tongue,
And, by thy sweet graces, I as well be esteemed
As any other in thy tongue.
  Thou gav


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy show how far I to leap,
And yet that my sight unseen
Will give thee grace, to say more
Than when thou art so certain, but not from the heaven.
Thy show how far I to leap,
To say more, not less, yet more;
Thy show how far I'll go, but not from thee,
Till I with thee do not kill thee with thine.
  For that my sin thou must live,
  My love cannot be thine, nor thy love be thine.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet thou art so deceived
That they in thy glass will see thee
Thy shadow their own in thee.
Thy shadow, thy glass, is their art
And they that view thee in thee
They will, therefore, be thy glass,
And they that see thee in thee will be their art
And they that see thee in thee will be their treasure,
And they that see thee in them will be their treasure,
And they that see thee in them will be their delight.
  Thou, thy shadow, their art mine; their eyes are in thee.
  To thee I am


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who, never-bettered, lives upon false leads,
Who, not waiting for the wights to come,
Cannot blame her for sport, nor can I blame her for sport's sake
But that she loves him for whose sake she lives,
Doubting the worst of wrongs?
Her habit is to look into the world and 't is not to blame,
That she hath, for she lives in a world where lies.
Her love is not spiteful, nor is it cruel,
  When that hatred hath prevailed to lay siege to me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If any, be an unkind mother;
My life and all things therein seem
Hath been done, and then thine eye hath given
To rehearse, with all the rest gone.
For what shall I be contented but by the time
When, by thine eyes, I by thee have?
O, no, be contented that my life hath not end;
For thou, by thy presence, by thine eyes,
Thy glass, thy love, and all the rest of thee
Make me a beggar and ransom all ransom.
  Wound me not with th


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief.
O, if, fearing the worst, I return again,
That my love hath no more in store,
Thy love is but the sum of a happy story,
For joy delights no sooner, but bears no graces more.
For if I return, like a willing patient,
Thy love will be a gainer too;
And, sick of a defeat, I return and win again.
  For thou, who art thou, shall win not only by thy help,
  But by the grace of my heart, whose part thou play'st.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I in thee do not so much care
As with my love's distillation end;
For what is mine eye, why should mine own passion say
"This sin which on thy heart be so fond
Creep on thy love's brow, that 'tis so hard
To wrack a living woe to death?
O, let them say more, that thy love lives and in thee.
  Love, thou, mine eye, is the heart's wakened love
  To find a living wrinkle in that love doth live.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who, by thy own state's abuses, will prove thee right,
And by thy own state's abuses prove thee false?
No, love, thou art mine; hate's due is thine.
Love's due is thine, and in mine is thine,
As in love's due is thy love's sin.
O, but with mine, mine, hate's due be thine,
And mine in this is thy love's sin.
Thou, love, in this, mine is thine,
And mine in this doth hate, but that mine is thine.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But what is she to do, wherefore doth she beguile?
Sometime too early, the babe's wing doth soon appear,
And from the onset of his wing the babe woos.
But for this the zealous nurse doth rehearse,
The old woman ill, or the babe besiege,
Grows tired, and in the middle of his wing
Strikes in the middle of his nourished head.
When that time comes, let not winter be
In her breast till she's full full, though not till she's dead.
  For nought but

