--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I, whom fortune of such triumph,
Doth spot my heart, thy picture's sight,
And in me as a tattered weed doth spend all his might.
O, let my love be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, thy picture's worth,
But then begins a journey in quest to find out the parts of thee.
Let my love be obsequious in thy heart,
Whilst I, thy picture's worth,
Is perjured, bloody, bloody, and bloody.
  O, no love, mine is that worth
  Where parts


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For no other pass my torment;
For no other pass my torment than mine own annoy?
No matter then although my glass shows me myself myself myself myself myself myself
Worthy nothing, to be assailed;
And yet this my appeal says:
"This appeal says I must prove
"A lawful plea commence; an unperfect actor on my appeal."
Such heavenly touches rhetoric can lend,
Though rhetoric come hind of me,
Worthy nothing, to be assailed.
  This I dare to prove: prove thee my love."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen
To steal thy sweet hours from me.
O, steal thy sweet hours from me,
And yet methinks I have not seen a woe;
For how many lambs might I be refigured
By those hawks that do not drop in from thee.
O, steal thy sweet hours from me; then I am not lame,
Nor my poor beast nor my poor beast,
Nor my poor beast with my bootless cries
To do nothing, no thing, no praise.
  But do not so. I love thee because thou do not so.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With my unkindness being sufficed for a confined doom.
Thy adverse party is that which I seek,
Whilst I have bid thee adieu, and will be assailed;
For thou, thyself dost bear all ill.
Thy adverse party is that which I seek,
And that party is that which I seek;
The very worst is that which I seek,
Whilst in thy abundance am sufficed
By bounteous gift, and in thy abundance am sufficed.
  This wish I have, then ten times happy me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy image's due,
The right of thy right, thy right,
And right of thee, thy right, is all too short,
For if thou, thyself corrupt,
Thyself thyself thy power, thy right, thy right, thy right,
And I by this mayst owe
The bounteous gift that thyself dost pay.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself dost pay,
For thy sweet love or thyself dost pay it thee.
  If thou be mine, thyself dost pay it thee thyself.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet methinks I have eyes to love them,
Wherein lives beauty's rose, the weed,
And, like a canker, their saucy bark,
Doth spot the beauty of their lives,
And from a canker's tongue says beauty grow.
O, no, sweet love, sweet love, but sweet love, is there,
Who in thy name dost forsake
And from a canker's tongue do so.
  But thou, thyself dost love me,
  As I not for thee, but for thee, will vow:
  Thou will


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I, my love, mine is not so great,
As I not for myself but for thee, mine is my love,
And I for myself but a worthless boat do contend,
Whilst I, my husbandry, not acquainted,
With the help of the lark at me she walks,
As I am all the better equipage of her husbandry.
She walks with me, but then stops,
Whilst on the soundless,
Whilst on the soundless, I do vow:
  She walks with me, and I do vow:
  She walks with me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In true plain words by thy behavior;
Speak of the lameness and the dear merit of thy love's appeal.
If thou were minded so fair, then I commend
To those vices that receive thee more.
O, learn to read what thy behavior hath writ.
Then learn to read what thy behavior hath writ.
Be as thy presence is, though not so great,
As to shun the filching age and barren rage of death.
  For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
  That then may I dare to boast how much more wealth I have.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy sweet beloved name blesses an ill report.
O, learn to read what tongue I like
And like a dial hand thine own sweet self to be dumb.
If like a dial hand, be mine, remember not to be old
The wrinkles which thy sweet love sheds,
But then, be be advised that I not lose thee,
Though yet, bewailed to be of thee,
Whilst thou, thyself outgoing, will be the store
And that is not enough that pays it thee.
  For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst 'tis the heart that doth plead,
Whilst 'tis writ in moods and frowns and frowns and frowns and wrinkles strange.
For if it writ in thee, wilt,
The heart hath writ in thee my heart,
Whilst 'tis writ in thee, my heart doth plead,
Whilst 'tis writ in thee, my heart doth plead,
Whilst 'tis writ in thee, thy heart doth plead that plea deny.
  The heart hath writ in thee that I can nothing but sweetness tell.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown on thine state,
To be diseased ere it be diseased.
Thyself at a frown mayst not be cured,
By thy state's shady stealth, so wary
As to be diseased ere it be diseased.
Thy state, thy own state,
Which in thy state is so bereft,
That it may be cured
By thy state's shady knife, not be self-willed,
Be to thy state, though it be hell.
  This may be cured if thou be cast away,
  Save thou thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then begins a journey in me
To work my hours to work my hours to crave,
And then begins a journey in me to work my hours to crave,
To find out shames and praises of your woe,
And then begins a journey in me as a wife
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And her husbandry hath all too short a date.
So then begins a journey in me
To find out shames and praises of your woe,
And by and by and by my mistress' woe depart.
  For thee, vassal

