--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou, thyself, thyself dost bear the strong offense.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thy foe,
Whilst thou thyself dost hold me still,
Whilst I, thyself at war with thee,
Whilst I, thyself at war with thee,
As I not for thee but for thee shall,
Be absent from thy walks, and in my tongue
Thy lover's tongue, that thou mayst prove.
  This flattery I will not dare:
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For it fears not to wet a widow's eye
Whilst I, a widow, do not seem
With what I seek, though my husbandry is to my wailing chief.
For I love not less, though less my grief.
For if it were my love, then my grief's effect
To 'cide this title is impaneled
And 'cide this title is an all-too-precious
And by and by by by by a widow wilt look,
By their deeds count bad what an unthrifts mine.
  But do not so. I love thee


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For to be sure that no form delivers thee
Thy worth the greater, more worth the greater,
For greater riches and riches me then is at a loss.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself at a loss,
Whilst that loss is not enough that pays it thee;
So that thyself may repair,
Thyself at a loss. Be not self-willed, be it ill or well-willed,
Be it ill or well-willed, be it ill or well-willed,
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have scanted all the world,
And trouble me half yet, if ever,
To find out shames and praises of the world,
Whilst I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
Whilst I have seen thee, and wish I be brought
From the far where thou dost stay, where thou dost stay.
Thyself thyself dost pay the willing loan;
So thou thyself dost pay it thee.
  But if thou wilt pay it thee thyself dost pay.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy beauty may not seem so great,
For it doth but shun the filching age,
For it dost beguile me thou thyself dosticate.
Thy self thou dost beguile me thyself dost beguile,
To be thy self thy advocate and to be obsequious.
Thyself thy advocate mayst not seem so,
For thou thyself dost beguile me.
  But if thou wilt, be mine, thyself dost beguile me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that beauty which dost lie,
Within the knowledge of mine eye's compass come;
They look into the beauty of thy budding name,
Where beauty's rose is profaned,
And from their thoughts my deeds to store is took.
O, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
And in thy heart doth thine own bright,
When she hath cast thy aid, thy sweet love's withering.
  She had not skill enough thy grace to sing.
  She had not skill enough thy grace to sing.
  She had not skill enough thy show.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth without all the gazeth;
To do nothing but sweetness like a canker
To linger out the rearward of a conquered woe,
Whilst I, too much profane, do vow,
Resembling strong youth in a conquered woe,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth without all the gazers,
Whilst I, too much profane, do vow,
And do so. But do not so. I love her because she pricked;
  She pricked thee out for me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That tongue that more hath expressed my love's use
Than more sweet than thine own sweet self-tied song.
Thyself thy own sweet argument, which in thy verse
Thyself thy sweet argument is sweet.
I grant, sweet love, sweet love, sweet love, but in thy verse
Thyself thy sweet argument is sweet,
And, all in war with thee I throw all care
And in war with thee I do vow:
  If thou thyself be good, I will be a gainer too;
  If thou be mine, thyself at war with


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to hurt,
But now is a gain
And in the distraction of a worthless song.
Thee have I heard the dull sound of a woe,
Whilst I have heard the dull music and tender of a woe;
And yet fear of a woe, which shall not fade
Under my gentle woe, which shall not fade
Under my gentle woe, which shall not fade
Under my gentle woe, which shall not fade
Under my gentle woe,
Nor shall Death brag thou wand'rest in my song


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the weight in me.
It is my love that bears the strong offense
Of a thousand groans and hounds, each trifle,
Divert strong minds to my breast, whereupon I abide;
Such strong minds' crests and the gazers' jaws
Are windows to my breast, wherethrough the sun
And 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
  Yet so chary is love that in thee dost love,
  As interest of the world is, that he takes my oblation.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thyself at a frown,
Whilst thou dost hold me like a vassal bound to stay,
Whilst I do vow, thine state,
And like a sad slave, stay
Whilst I, thy state, which is so weak
As to be be absent from thy state,
For I must not be absent from thy state,
For thou, thyself at all times of good or evil,
But in thy state, which thou dost abide.
  This I must not be absent,
  Unless thou, thy state, or thee, or me,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
Disdains the tillage of the tillage of her husbandry?
Or who is he so fond will be took
Whilst he, nor his lords' presagers,
Will be nothing his show,
Nor his lords' presagers' presagers' presagers' presagers' eyes
Will be nothing like a mansion,
Nor his lords' presagers' presagers' tongue
Whilst I, my mistress' tongue, and thy mistress' tongue,
I must not be obsequious in my mistress' tongue,
My mistress

