--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst they themselves boast of having 'killed'
Novel cures for my grief;
And in their spite they use every excuse
To keep my spite in check,
From thee, my disabled friend, who hath 'killed me,
More than I in that I love thee;
Thine eyes when I love thee are false,
And their rank jealousy is making my grief grow,
And they themselves in their gaudy party
Were ruined by their own gaudy party,
Which in their gross evil took place,
  The gaudy party, which now looks much better,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or repulsion?
Or is it enough that I in such grief
Reserve my well-refined pen,
For love and pity me in such strife
As in the chest where my heart's infection
Falls?
Or is it enough that I in such wretched plight
Admit my frailties and plight above?
For fear of ill help or pity's effect?
O, none; no friend can I but you, and for that I am sorry
  To hear your name abused.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may see
My poor dear love's scythe and crooked roof
As if by some thief stol'n from far where
To steal thee all my treasure?
Mine eyes but see, not thine,
Mine own eyes in this, that is their art
To the watch the clock that tells the time
That tells the dead and on the sweet day
Of lovely spring and lovely April,
And then he in me doth steal
And robs from me, even in thee.
  Mine eyes even see thy beauty, and mine eyes are thine,
  But mine eyes are friends


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hung with the pent up fears of death,
Yet like a sad child, I think of thee
As soon as my dear love shall be,
Sometime old and sour, but with a fresh wish,
Harsh, hungry, sad, and in need of some rest.
If thou gav'st me well, then thou am a better father
than mine, and mine is more blessed,
Than mine own son's folly.
O, what shall be thy change, thou mine?
Thy eternal love shall be thy change; mine is thy wish, and mine.
  Thou lov


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy reasons why are so grounded
In this do allow me here, and here is hope,
So much of hope in my breast,
That through thy part I in thy breast may be found.
Thy reasons why, be thou mine, are so grounded
In this mine own breast, where thou art assured
Of all the blessings that come from this fair bosom.
This my love so strongly engrafted
That, despite of thee, my breast will bear him all.
  This my love shall be, which I not deny.
  Thy reasons why I love thee so  All alike are


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in thee they see thine own own view.
But do not they wonder at thy weakness
When in thee some blind alchemy takes place?
Thou dost love dwells on thine own breast
And in thine own breast dost lie,
Made by thy breast dost deceive;
For in thee thy breast dost lie,
Made by thy breast's own breast dost deceive.
  For thee no beauty dost lie,
  Thou art as thy sweet self dost deceive.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That for fear of scandal bring shame,
She forsworn me with false salutation,
Called to be her, and then assailed
By what my mistress calls "suspicious"
For every shady which touches her bosoms?
But when my mistress calls me,
She says she loves me and doth she steal
From a certain antique song
And tells of the time when I was wont to sing it,
And tells not of the fairest flowers or lovely garments
  And sickenes me with cold when she sings it.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that sin that thou mayst call
Is compounded sin, by thy blood being drawn,
And I in thy veins converted.
'Tis with thy graces and in mine own love
That I with thee may prove
Not by thy blood but by thine eye.
'Tis with thee and mine own love that I may allay
But that I in thee may prove none;
That in thee I may allay
Disputing in thy heart, which is thine.
  For thee mine is my all, and mine is my love,
  And mine is my all, and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy fury, which in thy breast
Sets out against tempests graces
Thy rosy cheeks and thy hungry tongue,
Whilst my dear love hath hissy lips and cheeks
With bitter heat from him that hath his fury.
Therefore be thou, the world, and I, world without heat,
Thy lovers' eyes, and they with thy cold are
Harsh in their seeing, and in their drooping livery look
At the marigold and the rose; and they with thine cold have
Thy lover's eyes and tongue, which, fearing no heat,



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that in me subscribes the thought
That this earth I in thee are sluttish.
For thou who art so fond on me,
I will the world believe the worst of falsehood,
And in my tongue the wail of the world away?
Thy love is what my tongue doth publish,
And that the world, that doth thy bad,
Thy tongue's slander in thine eyes,
Is better than a summer's story to my lips;
  Or else it is better for the earth to live and die.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That no other sin hath this sin groaned:
Mine own love is love of thine,
And mine own love is love of mine,
And mine own love is mine, and mine own love of mine.
Thou art the tenth in ten of these,
Of ten I in love this tenth,
And niggard love of mine is in this twine;
Yet this thine argument cannot persuade,
For it is false that love is in love of thine.
  For thee mine loving is my hate,
  And mine love is mine, and mine own love of thine


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So, while my beloved music played
While your sweet minion doth rehearse,
My love doth rehearse you for me,
And here's the joy:
"Sweet mother, please, that your sweet child
Doth rehearse, and you for her rehearse
With sounds too sweet to my ear,
In gentle lines drawn, with pleasing accents;
So is my mother's song, which I hear daily
As she sings your song, to be played, not played.
  But when you rehearse, let her rehearse,
  Since then your song cannot be so sweet

