--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which to me they are kings, kings of love.
For, if thou wouldst take my love away,
My soul would not hold it in such slumbers
As to take thee away.
For, being crowned with my love,
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Which to me they are kings, kings of love.
  Yet thou, being so gracious, do not shun my plight,
  For my love is such a strength that I cannot hold back.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If I be found guilty of such a crime?
Or is it not enough to be found guilty
Of such a crime to my grief?
O, be not so kind as to my grief;
For I love you so much, and you so dearly,
That I will not shun you with shame,
Nor dare to be despised nor hate you with grief.
  For that which I hate, I will be so kind
  As to shun you and you so dearly,
  That I may be remembered not to be despised.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might inherit
My riches and thy worth.
But if thou be my heir,
My life and wealth forfeit to thee.
O, my life, my wealth forfeit!
Thou art mine, my life's treasure,
And this my life forfeit, to thee.
Thou art mine, my life's treasure,
And this my life forfeit, to thee.
  Thou shalt not steal my life nor thy treasure
  From me, for I am thy heir.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And that in thee all the world is wracked.
Thou art the fairest of all,
And all the world's best,
And yet, if thou wilt, I will have none of thee.
Thou art the most bounteous of all,
And all the world's best,
And yet, if thou wilt, I will have none of thee.
  For thee so far is from home that thou canst not sail.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the most impure treasure that thy sight can see,
And yet thy beauty cannot detain thee there,
For thy sight is the best of all sight's fair.
Thou art the first, but the best of all,
And thou art so rich that, like a fair-haired maiden,
Your sweet odor is so strong that it doth convert thee.
O, be not so bold, my love; thou art the first,
And all the better.
  If I, thy true love, were to be married,
  I should have more beauty in thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see what is concealed in thy heart.
Yet thou dost deceive, for thou art the most rich,
Thy beauty dost lie hidden in thy heart,
For thy beauty dost lie in thy heart's breast,
For thou art the most poor, thy heart's best friend.
O, let them see thy beauty, and they themselves dost see
Thy beauty dost lie hidden in thy heart's breast,
  For thou art the most poor, thy heart's best friend.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And I should be proud of her for I have seen
Her woe to change the course of her story.
For in the date of her death I read
That she was a widow, that she might not die
But that I, though astonished, should say
"No more love's name should live on thy brow."
So, for the love of thy good name, I would not dare to say
"I love thee,"
Nor should I but praise thee for thy beauty,
  Being the fairest in all the world.
  But thou, being so fair, should I praise thee,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Haply I will the tear that touches thee shall be
Divert from thy sweet cheek,
And thence I to thy breast, where thou art buried.
The earth, which in thee breathes,
Cannot be touched but by thee,
And thou, too, is my grave,
Where thou art buried.
  For thy sake mine own sake I will do thee shame,
  For thou art my husband and I in love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a state of mind as mine?
For love's true nature is as cruel as thou art,
And yet it doth call me to my grief,
And thou, my sweet love, hast the added burden of that burden.
I am sick of that guilt, of which thou art so cruel,
And I am contented with thy cruelness.
Thou, my sweet love, hast the added expense of that expense.
  But that is not enough, thou art more than my sorrow.
  So thou wilt be my grief, my love is my comfort.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thou, my love, being thine in me do most boast.
For thy love is not a measure of my heart's desire,
Nor is it a measure of my soul's desire,
Nor is it thy love's shape to my mind.
For thy love is not a part of my mind's desire,
Nor is it thy soul's love's shape to my mind's view.
  Thy love is mine and theirs alone.
  Thy love is mine alone, and mine alone mine alone.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own sin, which is so heavily condemned,
Thy own sweet self-love, which I love so dearly.
Thyself so strongly condemned that thou in thy heart
Thou dost break, and that thou wilt be cast out.
I am thy sweet self, and thou, too strongly condemned,
Doth break, and that thou wilt be cast out.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself so strongly condemned that thou in thy heart
Doth break, and that thou wilt be cast out.
  But with mine compare


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But all these were all short-lived,
And when they were gone, the beast leapt
From the green-fringed canopy, and straight fled.
Then did the wights of heaven give place
To the ghastly steed, which fell upon the ground
And in his huge bosom was crowned queen.
O, that is not so! The maiden goddess of swiftness
Sets down a swift-footed beast,
And all these were short-lived,
And when they were gone, the beast leapt
From the green-fringed canopy, and straight fled.


