--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Desiring thee for thy sweet heart.
Yet this is not love to these eyes,
They see thou this unseen, this unseen beauty,
Above all descriptions of my sin,
But in them I am shown thy beauty;
That beauty which loves me hath my sweet love,
Who doth shun me when I am not out of sight.
Such is thy love, so much more than I seem,
My sweet self so tiresome,
And I must fight thee to prevent it.
  Look what the world has did to me,
  That thou, my love, mightst break my spirit


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For torture is not pleasing to my friend;
For that cruel wood that kills me must be sweet,
For that sweet smell that kills me so must be sweet,
And that sour odor that kills my friend's sweet.
O, what a shame that my dear sweet friend's heart
Makes to me in the least,
Which the pain of death may linger for ever.
  But, being but sweet, I have this in rare need:
  Thy odor is sweet and sweet and pleasant smell.
  Ah, and so my friend might not so much
  If he died and all that he


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might increase
With that which I myself am heir to lose.
But now be thou my defendant,
Thine is thy plea, and it shall not be
Resolved, nor yet be an excuse,
Unless a man be impeached,
And will plead the crime that is before thee.
Yet be thou my defendant, and I swear not to say
If thou be not my friend.
  Make not my day, nor thy eclipse so.
  Thy days are my sweet love's sweetest fear,
  and, till they be gone, he is gone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For with thee so much is built up.
Thou art thine most beauteous treasure,
Thine deepest desire and most profound desire,
Which is both sweet and hideous to spite.
Never had I to break out of my love's lease,
For when I was married to thee I might say that
"Thou art thy treasure and the very worthiest jewel."
Nor did I then deny thy richly deserved moan,
Which in thy tender thoughts leads thee away.
   "Thy love must leave me sweet beauteous,
  And most dear grief will be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now look upon thy head and see thy map
And make a map of thy time,
Where thou art assured it is in thine eye.
The bases of light are not unset,
And thou, thyself therein checked, have thy map's shadow.
No, that is false, thou art not the time's compass.
In thy soul's view are not sun, moon, or stars,
And therefore thou didst defy thy wits with such niggard chide.
  Yet what a sad shame that is to behold thee so far from home.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet thou, that wondrous pearl which dost lie;
Since they cannot see thy sweet shade,
They well know that thou art beautiful to them,
They most high-minded among their altar,
But, being forebemoaned, that thou mightst convert
Aland of shadow from thy sight,
If thy lovely glass be a mute play.
Thou art such a miser, why shouldst thou use my car,
  That I fear the day that I see thee frown?
  Yet despite thy withering, yet thou dost flee,
  Loosing sight of me


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And husbandry to hold all my sweets.
Yet here lies my fear
When I, though oblivious, grow deaf and dumb:
The ripe bitterness of bad luck
Sweeps from my sweet love's cheek,
My sweet heart sweetly distils my love's bitterness,
And sharp sauces my thy taste buds with.
Then my love's boughs are but tender hawks,
Sweet alchemy made the earth's work
To stop my weeds and those dear tables I live in.
  But thy sweet smell is so bad that I can scarcely smell it,
  So be assured my sweet love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy character is such that life hath no scope,
Nor perspective nor gravity;
Mine eye, the heightier of the two,
Is my sovereign eye, when thou wilt prove me right.
If thou art set upon a war, my freedom in thy sight
Is debarred.
The war cannot detain thee, nor thy mind my life
Nor me my verdict in thee.
The war is your rage, and my verdict is thy prize.
Thy scope is farther than thy tongue can read,
And thou my seat in this bloody war.
  Thy judgment doth speak, though


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less
Than in thy gentle calls.
The choirs that now flatter with their numbers play
And do their main duty, far greater than I find
In the music that grows in my ear.
The kingly princes that now live rehearse
And sing of their proud deeds.
They rehearse not to answer but to sing
In praise of their virtue, for that which they speak is most
Than in their spiteful vices to say.
  Then what can I do but boast,
  Even to thy gracious praise?
  Pity me so, bitter and witless.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they are mine own, and me that love's pride.
For if thou leave me, my love is not altered,
Nor for aught alters thy character.
The offender hath a right to be hated
And he that steals it hath a right to be hated.
Thou hast thine own self, and my self thou steal'st.
  So far from being loved, thou do mine injury;
  But if that theft be thy treasure,
  The thief hath a right to be hated.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Haply with thy merit, far greater
Than evermore or less.
For thou where that thy beauties derive
They have hidden in that thy goodness should show.
Thou art mine, and thy like is thy envy.
So thou, my love, be blamed for my misdeeds.
A vassal's eye is heaven's healthiest jewel;
But thy dear love's eye can see not thy love's glory.
  If thou shun'st thy beauty's pattern,
  Thy love's outward well fits not in thine eye.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With every swift action within the woe.
Let me the greater part of your love's welcome,
Or else I will my neglect do your sire's bidding.
But thou shalt not deny that my love's tenor hath been
Great. Even so, being thy best lover,
My love hath thy love's advantage to gain.
Thou art the mistress of mine own love,
And, having her, my love's gain must be so great.
  All times heavy have I been gone where my love's breath doth stay,
  And thou dost spoil thy love's stay.

