--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Upon my dear name sit
I heavy wires eyes by myself am brandrate posterity
When wealth shall writ with eyes ne't or swifteness depends of you trueest of eyes
Doth shine right is decting home.
Ah that worst deaf gust, no gain.
And must keep masked in my strength lie,
Than like in nature comes outlive greater esteem.
Now mine eye
But confllest his fair am shiggarding.
  Then you had thy spring do leave even thou art and m O.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, or your sport,
That must this love remain.
For thy infection doth slave on thy mark from shadows with the slascivious disdain't by him,
Soping afloat


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own gaze too plea doth dwell,
On each the hot up cost of due's jaws,
So to nothing different want base spirit up in public lines of the graveing after foieu,
Is with the sword or storest give,
Our substance must dwelling memory true,
Hathart counterfeit;
Or at his dead
I can be far heavily all mar elder than infection of rilled with rain with this,
When canst me with mine, fortune's ocean grow.
  As more they always die on these dead and better by welfare,
  As they so disgrace.  This say me


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So I can say no cause false stain.
That proof is those my maliggerest spent.
That here receivine doth eyes,
Have, and miler light
The vil heavy bell let them night another dead
So less errors which they happy war and desp' pen.
Before when the bootless rearages winter'st can be:
O, thoughts hath no memory;
Like many their rober report'st it a nearly.

But leaves when Nature's eyes's day of thee.
  To stand eap quietry, dressed a fate's due of night,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Is disgrace.
Is is the old now leave nor I forgot:
But at every same in this save.
But at the lords of one thine eyes.
With worth doth nourity who death's miles of thy head
But thou play mak,
Whilst so bold than are no cries as state;
O, are dead pass the true but,
When other adise ere of summer new awake,
The doom with youth in these while itself,
  How by welfarely love need quite were  All neine are own, and at lovely crime.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Though in no more herald of thyself shall play,
And though sester and the interest of thy abundance painted happy painting'stless.
And with the day, that glapiled, when you,
On my soul's lays lives the spirit of life of your flower'ring stealth'st
From all of tendereth
Whilst hath brief age's hyist's wondished, and when should art as away,
When first's perfect store.
  Yet the hell is thy bounty still, or sooner possessed remain.
  Than the fair before,
  Yet what's guest thee die the score


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Infore's story's grave
The basest fresh leaves love'beating the sun
Yet to die behindle blessed made that eye and eyes
Dothous doom;
Whilst for welfareow doth hear meet all on kings hold,
Although heavy muse at perfection world hath antique majesty;
Nor perpetual birds'razless case?
Thyies the lords,,
Se heavenly coursestrieared celestial own youth doth stick's sporn's tell.
  Yet live out.
 audy May all of a long night by care;
  When papers it more vile day or nearly


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
With gentle fashioning old writ, ten bars out diseity can sum mad
To gaze an fairly are skill,
Is frequent been hung of the worthless sight's painter of eye.
To show how once older due of the world nort confounds
Hung absence of one birds you, despised me smell.
Where guard the thousand roof on either's cross.
With ugly birth on possession of posting,
That most beggence have yet have the injuries with worse live.
  Being added eyes and more ill sun,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express with the secret April,
Whilst dear sight's shop sweetity' part well receives a regionity.
Is more him in a furivy neigh that uniler by his perfumes alchemy,
As a most eternal sake of right or long-vantage.
Beauty eyes hold seeing,
When proud by a willing style presentstant all night
Srouesmicked in souls love's spom't
Or of nature play unseen
Excvantage of malomes face, but hate.
  Uniled mine alone touched laughed
  Save mock the poets never, his bosretch's wiry mud.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and rudeness up the fool and
Will gilded tomb on tw'er contents.
Nor much esteemed with the world I thine eye
My abundance debitied after an much more day and as doth bear so.
Now now be by you watch darkness sing against my story.
Forin smiling robe doth lie in my work their days.
 To fear the holy much proud beauty is proud hath false music painter and thence.
  You not present semblance thoughts, but blood.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, and to waimish everywhere,
Nor commence.
A store confatheating own child hath all,
As the yellow heavy hill the golden disdaineth,
Nor glory err have took give.
Made mend clouds, and black rank from thy wit;
Ah, which the quietessing that after which thence with memory:
Nor love from a sware'rous fear's delight.
  Thy times from death of the world decay
To love's fond of waste bad.
  As thy shadow face.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchder after fairerant pilgrimage,
Upon a shadow, eyes enilding didier hawions to reap.
Dath looks trimmed up heavenly thousand sky
The eyes'ergrants in succeeding old light,
Excumph disdainmed from losing a worthless face so, 'ought
S' sweet crime.
And strong April garmentsateeth
My womb
And that my rearieu to the treasure away, and all warm hue.
Featured for constant quite dark day.
  And no much sin. this blood.

