--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill the bowels of my soul,
Which sullenly wink to thee when thou muse'st
Within thy glass my grief.
But thou art a poet, whose beauty, in thy breast
Strikes fear in my mind's eye
Whence thy lines of praise will seem so unimportant
To my poet's sweet mind.
  Lo, behold thy beauty doth have a quiet place
  Where bitterness breathes in thy verse.
  And yet this, dear love, thy verse cannot alter:
  Wilt thou make a poet's rhyme better


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I do your favor, if I am so bloody ill?
For fear of the worst I do not even salve it,
Making my hope not shaken,
Nor seem ill to you.
I do not believe that love's power to change
Calls to make me sick, nor ill that love engrafts on me.
If you desire to see the kind of medicine
Which my friend hath devised,
If you desire my dear love to miscarry,
Make sure I do not love any ill,
  Wishing I should live long enough to read your epitaph.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might live
Above the debt of millions.
The wretched bastard he is, for that debt he no longer lives
But when I say 'tis time to kill me,
But you, o'er-substantial men, with their living gold
Will carve my life in stone, and I into their grave
When you are gone, thou shall live, and I as well
As those who slept well with thee.
  Yet, true to my self, thou denyest them
  And my love, and I find no bitterness
  Finding that they did not sleep well with thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Yet if every man I send forth,
More than enough can I be conquest'st
Than thou art, nor can I be subdued.
No, more that I have done than thou hast done,
Than as thou yourself have made my charter.
Till at last, then, when from thy power
A man hath conquered,
When I, in thy power too can be conquered,
My grief bet thou, my love's tyranny still large.
Yet I fear not thy fury,
Nor thy lovely offense that keeps my joy in quiver.
  Thy sweet love never destroys,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou shalt trust in me, my deeds mightst thou see
That thyself I must lie down,
Or else buried in the night where thou art
And dost lie, face to face with the world,
Be entombed in hell in thy bosoms,
Proving myself thy self-love, my love,
Since then thou dost lie in the earth, away from heaven,
The dregs of hell, where thou dost lie.
  But trust thou this: trust I in thee,
  And I, thy flower, in thy sickle weed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But they do not read it in the deepest part of thy heart,
For it is not in thy deepmost thoughts
That thou art so blind to thy sweet desire.
They see thy heart through thy bough,
And thou, as blind as thou, behold'st his wrinkles grow.
Thou art so oft as they say: "Make them learn how thou dost write,"
That I, in thy deepmost thoughts,
Have seen thy spite and thy woe;
They so think when they behold thy beauty
That their willful sight perceiv'st not thine.
  You


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For whom I so strongly suspect her,
That since she hath created a husbandry in me,
My dear boy's eye hath drunk from her robe.
But I suspect not that she hath many children,
Nor is she so bold as she shows her deeds.
All their strange odors, all their accidents,
And strangely dyed jewels all their charms,
Nor have I seen of men so fair
As thou behold'st in that color which doth stand
Drawn by a goddess or created by men.
  Such beauty hath in my dear boy's eye doth stain,
  And yet


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For shame, such hate, so rude is my tongue's invention.
Thy mind and tongue are so motley, and my love's breast nearly barren,
Naming every quiet spot that cannot hear thee.
O, call not the world unfair if it make me hear thee,
Who dost thou steal my poor sweet self's memory,
And kill thy life by thy drooping head.
But love, a dear mother, being slain in love,
Grows hate and sorrows, as I did before.
O, truly, love, if I do revolt, I seek thee out
No


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express no grief.
All that is right with me, all that is wrong with thee
Whilst I with thee go, out of your control.
To thee all that is false is an assured truth,
Which love in thy brain is divided
And governs all kinds of thoughts.
To me all that is false is more true than thou,
Lest I should deceive a widow by telling her
That thou wouldst deceive a rich widow.
  Adieu me, my love; I will thy cause lie.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And their pen that writes what they hate.
To think myself so, dear love, I do so boast:
My love is a more common book than my eye;
The less minded with my knowledge,
The more fair I am to the eyes.
So that thou mightst be missed I will do thee part
In affirming truth to my knowledge,
By thy sweet nurse enclosing thy glass,
Whose love is more true than my mind's knife.
  For thou wouldst lie in all kinds of gullibility
  Were it not for thy grace that I lacked so much love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Haply and pure;
Thy use of thy sweet self decease,
Whilst thou grant'st all my prayers,
So that mine own sweet trust
Can in thee vouchsafe no need.
How, then, can thy loving respect stand in thy sight,
Which, dear friend, says he will one day be thy friend,
Where acquaintance is but a shadow of thy face.
  No loving friend in thy sight can speak better;
  Thou, truly mine, let my tender love say so.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For thy sweet ornament hath stol'n through thy breast
Made strange times past and present lengths cut short.
That she hath still not at my death's door
Spied thee all eternity, thy sweet love, when thou receivest,
With thy love's ransom now vanishing.
Therefore my love's life depends upon thy stout love's building,
And thine monument is within ere long of decay.
  Yet beauty lives still--nor can thy worth decay--
  Unless thy ransom should at last be paid.

