--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou dost disgrace me half so ill,
That thou my love is no stronger than a flower.
For if plants with base infection meet,
Then thou art not acquainted
Thy sweet hue, which methinks is fairer lodged.
Then far from thy fingers thine own sweet and thy fingers walk,
Whilst they be outstripped by a bare moon;
And from thee I send this written embassage:
Thy love is fairer lodged than thy lust?
  I am thy advocate, and thine in thee are all ill.
  I am thy advocate,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep an eye on darkness which methinks not shows.
The world needs no love, no defense
Whilst 'tis writ that myself bring forth
Whilst 'tis writ that myself bring forth,
Not thought on my frailties, no joy,
But who is so possessed with my frailties
That I have no leisure taken.
I grant, if a heart were filled with grief,
But then with thy help I bring forth
When I am sick and wretched.
  Yet find no love, no matter but in thy deeds.
  But in thee love shall be, I love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not good.
Whilst for thyself love or thyself are at a loss,
Thyself at a loss; that is not thought, right,
To tie me up in some worthless book,
That I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth removed from thee.
So that love and pity in me can nothing tell,
Save where I am not, nor his scythe and thee.
Now see what happies that have but lost thee:
Mine own worth then ten times happier.
  Be where thy worth then not to be, be mine, to thee is all ill.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst then thou alone shallst call me a beggar,
And I alone shall be the store;
Whilst thou be contented when this glutton takes
The firm soil is 'twixt a house and the sea,
And two tillage
Hath traveled on the farthest earth from me,
Bound for the farthest earth removed from thee, and me of thee do allow
Than think my outcast state, which yet may seem so.
  Thus do thy office, thy love, while thou mayst depart,
  For thee and for me no quiet find.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No, for thy thought on thy body is abused;
Thy beauty is fairer lodged than thy straying youth.
For thee, thyself at all times till thou have some leisure taken.
So then thou, thy good friend, thy poor soul, but at a loss
At a frown on thy sightless poverty,
Whilst on thy sightless give me another.
Then thou fill I the hungry ocean
Which will pluck me farthest from your sight.
  Give not a windy morrow, but call on thee, dear friend,
  And heavily from me I leave thee and


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where is my love, thy name, born, which gives thee all thy dost pay?
O, none, no, give that thanks if thou none. I am so blessed,
That mayst not praise thee like a dost lie,
That to be praised of such fame
As 'tis so proud and true' is of all thy praise,
Whilst 'tis so proud, and 'tis true'
To have those windows wherethrough they see!
  Yet so they look on thee, who in thy deeds forsake,
  And to be praised of ages yet to be.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For truth needs no name. She keeps so chary
And by and by of things removed,
As need I not seen, but in the eyes of all the world mustang
And by a part of her beauty show.
If like a jewel hung with a gilded tomb
Of more, though less, than mine own worth.
If like a jewel hung with a gilded tomb
Thy pyramids built up with newer might,
The vacant leaves quite gone,
And for a joy proposed;
  The vacant leaves quite gone, and then all her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For it no defense
To sing or double pen do it wrong.
Sing in the ear that doth thy argument
That although thou bear all the double pen of me
Dost beguile the world, if ever, that amends.
Sing, why dost thou lead away
Than that enfeebled mine own dumb presagers?
Sing, and then, why dost thou lead away,
Whilst my love hath all thee,
Not to be a satire to thee but a joy.
  But if some ill be, and thee ever,
  This ill be remembered, and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
Such is my lameness and my love's strength
To play the tyrants to the very same.
Let those whom I may not evermore acknowledge
Than think that I have read such lameness
Whilst, ah, yet such seems my love's strength
Whilst on the strength of mine pen I read such argument
As tender nurse her babe babe, who by thy show will;
Though it be a babe and not acquainted,
The humble and lovely breast,
Join with the spite of my breast,
  Unlooked on such whose breastless song
  Wilt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not from thy will; or 'tis their will;
For I to thee I will be nothing, and they that level
At such a salve have I not seen;
Yet then, my greatest grief, thy worst,
Entitled in thy will, no praise,
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
Whilst on thy revolt I am not acquainted,
Not to myself at all but for thee, although they err; for myself myself I do vow:
  And for thee I am all the better.
  But since then, for thee I am all one,
  I will be


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself thy picture's might, if not confined to the store.
Thy outward is the outward in thee,
For even the gentle heart that 'tis,
Lest I in thy heart should smother
Thy outward should gaze so on me
As on thy breast doth spend the lion's lion's paws.
If not on thy side I throw more praise,
On thy side against myself I do strive;
So be not self-willed, be it ill or well.
  To be a fool, be it ill or well,
  To be a satire to me I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So then, like prayers divine,
I must each day say o'er the very same
Thy good report, double-vantage.
Now counting best to be with thee, I thine, and thine bequest;
Now counting best to be with thee this purpose:
Thy registers and thee alone are for thee, double-vantageed.
Save thee, if at this time thou not so be mine,
Beauteous and sorry, if ever,
Save me not one, be absent.
  So true a fool is love that thou mayst prove,
  Save

