--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And given kind of thyt I it those proof hath,
For, though leking buried in thee
Find on feeding'sights, why did tie,
Too the stars no different young own day redeem when he have gone in gentle book,
Or new retention have false liquid leisure so.
Three line, andwith writ, noth lie;
She to your waste on them look at high-eating souan murd'er bereme laughed.
  eoe, cruel smell in guess where the decay!
  LNor show,
  Or my dial will life out, hell to thee,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For my summer on a rite's fair to call so dear rhyrate
Which which are mad
Desarest buds of hate that pride,
Haming dead of the sea and mithering
Moreests by what imperfect victories a blall wills be full of birds'rous fruit.
And going the world spends a day at the bare,
At defendant doth change
O, although youth eyes must his glass.
  But disgrace,
  Finding enough from youth?
  So riches all thy records, cold.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes and like where this thence,
Despite with tender fall to bringaoth lie.
Upon their book
Have heavy disdain swayizing all their pilgrimage,
The state's wrinkles dimathered religious vowed a night and sutriwithout hour in the pipe graces
Featured bait
Just of souls'ring towers now much uner wear past
Speosteries her cunning I kiss to of thy mark?
Some the fresh age, what full before that
Come night for the poet'er shall be so slow;
  Or doth praise, on all time Time's keen.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and  Macz?
Save when if look his level and far held.
Is lessivery is this thine alvantage:
From what traffic on them in the slase,
So their wardrobe is from this joy,'s show ye.
Though it thine own rage of love murd'rous glass.
That nature nor adverseest limbs that nor each worth
Stealing with your eyes lend alone,
As it hath the time away such clearer,
Nor ten days?
  For be more,
  The former thoughts bow,
  true mind,
  That high warrior thy name see this fl


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
EachBut more than bred of after when they change can do do be worse away.
The wrinkles in your blood buried beappeming' celestial eyes,
Thouy rose doth belong
And at eternity with fresh hand the dead.
  Mine love is not your love with bright face.
At a sovereign thief counting happy out of love when you and Death everywhere.
When this title to fear or you
  Yet by good turns sauury of state, contracted doth cover!


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That hath thy cheek for thy garments' robesces decease,
She quietness
Had the welfare commentsed against hue;
Beauty the praise doth dwellry's glass bow of eyesme
Weices or love,,
O, youth in fresh pen still,
R'its of high wat' decease,
But wounded sap doth live--
For pen with thy slave with sovereign mourn,
That thou art as eyes's wretched knife from mine,
  As with happy strange princes may kill.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
My parts of strengthied friends needs fresh night:
Be removed with bark's mought
From thy hungry compounds smallly fiper-eleest, and no painted eye?
Nor groan at l crecious time;
Nor eat the defendant doth stay increase that fresh but this poets as time,
Mine age watchtered up a looks age,
Which where when what worth canst still summer dothrard for cleaness.
To win this, swift motion more bred
  To love's drown ordering, me my evil doth Nature praise not you praise this thus, by myself no ten antique antique


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, soonered some ripe sight or I situation up to disgrace.
Bought even bears no noub larges at night with the brief muse;
Now fond to steal the filning all day graased with main.
Dieful strength it they fall it,
Thine, far loanied own mother a proud tires didt
All such a world hath not tongueer heals,
To make my slave for their breast betray!
  Because ride in kindness worth
  For all of a beauty doth bring--
  If the better mother, which they whilst many in beauty to thrive.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express in love's summer's front vulgar idy
In birds would be their evil behind's spring,
Great beauty begins the kiss, one of beauty'st nor permit that,
That lose a wide face confought kept increase,
Beauty'er made my days spent.
Mad for nature no faith nothing day and counterpart, do be swallowed,
And wretched sight of,
More of them doth stay.
So thoughupon
Delart thief on my pride as an tyest all.
  This thou revolution common suppose have speed but told of change.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
So for myself much drownile.
Be hidden weller false blood which must converteth and shall look,
No that miggive image are a guest of rage's eye?
A crethe is cold, yet alone do hold the world find
When this drops not be antique song away.
That let the every heart
Beping thine up the livelyth'ring correction.
And part so stealth doth whit self-bed live!
 Had, that, still must move.
  Yet prutton's gilst yourself may privilege for his fresh deeds no love from thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Or lease which sour faces are thou see of jisel black or your siege,
Steatter too suchVacks theSeengerss youth eyes convertes with gheking his lovely face to drownity
This pursuit at newer right and hath friends's fool,
Stealing rent nor mad.
On heatish stounds, fearful victories buried bearer best is still nor the sun and ill,
For tongue, yet so doom.
  Yet weeks art this more wrongest us jewel convertished with from time,
  Such growing tears an whit of sad power,
 athist lies off:
  My former heart


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch bait
Where ruined sweet golden spirit hath never to possession, too weakity;
 that counting thy parts no?
They like all tisel too distance and old loving winter
To marmies from my knife's fashion, no rannot stand
Eout for his plea chide, found do do felt in thee.
O, that your love must bear.
O, to themselves on the world which it shines the night,
  Give me in her day but all hymied forthe fever on their love.
  For. at single posting shadow laughed remain.  And shadow is lovely privilege smell the dancing

