--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy eyes, though they view me like the sun,
Have in their wide-seeing eyes drawn thy picture,
And yet thou dost make my heart seem sad,
For, being of the worst sort, thou, too, do me wrong.
O, be not so kind to thy sight,
Thy eyes, though they see thee,
Have not seen thee in their wide-seeing eyes,
Nor seen thy beauty in their wide-seeing eyes.
  But for thy love, their eyes, though they see thee,
  Thou, too, do me wrong.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am bound to stay my eye open
For the dear love of thee which I love so dearly.
Thou art my dear friend, and my love is thy art,
Which in me to this sorrow is my least comfort.
So, being assured that thou art mine,
Thy self-love, being in me,
Is my captive, my friend to myself.
  For thee my heart's love is so strong
  That it might break out in me,
  And so my friend is dead.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
Upon the conquest of thy will.
So I do swear by him that he is mine,
And that I am a son of mine own,
And that he will pay me for this trespass.
So thou shalt not steal thyself from him,
For thou art his heir, for he hath the right
To take my life, to be buried with thee.
  And, being so taken, thou shalt be buried with him,
  And that thou mayst see him not be buried with me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For thou art not all alone in this sin.
Thou art not, all alone, all alone in this crime.
If thou wilt repent, repent in me,
And if not, repent in me again.
Thou art the most heinous of all offenders,
And I will bring thee to judgment,
For I am the more vile of all offenders.
Thou, the worst offender, will not be my plea,
Nor thou my plea shall make me forget.
  But if thou repent, repent not in me again.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art not the tomb where the dead dwell,
For that tomb doth lie, where the living dead dwell.
But thou, being so far removed from thy sight,
Thou art the tomb where the living dead dwell,
And, to thy sweet smell, is found a living dead man.
For thou, being so far removed from thy sight,
Is the tomb where the living dead dwell.
  Thy sweet smell is so much remembered that it doth doth mock,
  And doth mock that I should hear it.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see thy true face, the proud face of thy heart.
Thou art the first in the world to wink,
And they know thy true shape, the proud and the proud of thy heart.
Yet thou dost not see the eyes that thou art,
And thou know'st all their faces that thou art.
Thou art the first in the world to wink,
And they know thy true face that thou art.
  Yet thou dost not see the eyes that thou art,
  And thou know'st all their faces that thou art.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which for false praises I might call truth.
But I know not how to make love love,
Nor know what to do with her beauty's wealth.
So when I in the summer's day see her dancing,
I find her dancing in the hot sun,
Which on my way home in the deep summer doth wink,
Like a goddess to my eye.
  And in the heat of the day I see her in the deep sea,
  And in the deep sea I see her in the deep green.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The eyes that steal thy beauty's blood,
Hath the fairest and most purest glass in the world,
And in thy sweetest buds thy beauty's sweetest buds,
Doth live, and thy sweet odor doth live
In the buds that live on thy sweetest buds.
Yet thou art so beloved of my love,
That I, as the vial of thy odor,
Thou art the fairest and most purest glass in the world.
  Yet my love doth live, and I, like to the world,
  Die.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My grief in so far as my tongue can speak.
If my love were to be poisoned,
It would be a curse to my soul,
And my tongue to thee,
And all the rest of my tongue would be mute.
For thou art so kind and so gentle,
That my grief should not be so great,
Nor my praise so great,
Nor my sorrow so great,
Nor my love's spite so much.
  But be advised that thou mayst be so kind
  As to lend me some praise,
  And I will be so kind  As to thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they in thee thine eyes hate me.
Thou art the fairest of all, and mine eye that loves me best is
That doth forbid thy love to be so measured.
For thou art so sweet and so kind,
That I may myself be termed the fairest in my heart
And yet not so much as mine eye hateth me.
  And therefore I, for my love to thee,
  Have a pen in thy breast,
  Which to write 'tis all my love's purpose.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love and thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But for this she keeps a watchful eye on the time,
And, in a very slow motion, is wounded;
Her face, which, so sharp as a knife,
Crawls with her breast, and then shows no change.
For, for fear of injury, she keeps her eye open,
And spies all kinds of time,
Which, when she spies, is full of tears,
And hides all that is evident.
  So, like a blind man, she spies all the time,
  And spies on the day, and the night, and all things in heaven.

