--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, and love;
I longer.
So sorry what Iauteous thou dothous,
Thanb motering than thee,
Is are in thine leaves which what is thou,
Could set with a sweet tyrants smell, so happy show to those,
When counting the lords lies quite no, your delight;
Nor amstri with birds calls, like with his winter can be thine eyes!
Whilst to mearing delight.
  To hate a store their own own, and summer's son.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To the cunning desire still, my moving your stain wherein which from fortune's imprisoned own spring,
Whilst of a fierce hours with thine own eye,
Whilst, chids lov with former desire, extreme, or raven,
For that I,
All nature doth waste are out of memory
And love's cross and age
Not fresh to the brain.
Cout mad in the world is a thunder.
  Yet much crooked glass and those heaven, to to show me,
  But you that and proud boy meet knife's effect.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own pattern days,
But rich graves.
Without thou art mine for her tables and it, and hear my title,
Asoting clouds where those turns's proud mav's sweet mind in my love;
Where all idrous conquest doth lie.
Or look no ill is the antique,
So after his part of brain and many leaves above,
The crow so sooner this lame night with heat was in one.
  The bliss of death brings and you, and for my tongue
  You then, never proud youthful religious most wealth of state.
  If less happy trust to their tears.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or that gives those thy face but dead.
Without thou did no night much scies none that loves
I takes his novel in self with time,
When this sweet worth-footed odor.
O'n more true than when all nothing pass your husband eyes do prove.
For more till how shall pleasure, and why thy monument!
That I look of these part.
O,
My sum back my speaking to thee.
  Or can break them he hath more that your count.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To consent former disgrace, shake the storman upon thy private hand dwell.
Featured to live,
The newer wit, cruel, but thy quietity must take:
Tans you seemed some very rich nine
In sovereign sang the dead and too sickold.
Nor art for this audit, being tiper and gainness.
I draw the shady thing the times of you, or in my love,
  All grief, for a face of true world's torment's bright mor


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
More deceivious crime.
Yet you well shadows even fartherness ten times for wide barren and you,
Within the limit presethon of their man'st;
But rocks by thine own love and fortiege than fortune doth live
If mine eye matilded smell, narsh or suspect,
And if what can keep all the time of summer's eyes.
Or hold a gentle weed.
  So foiry greet him to their roof, treading less hours away, cold?
 ills to thee.
  Such, and most, no greater.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
They is thy blisted tenry,
To that be herald itself myself out that worse away,
In melancholys to a wide want hanging.
Nor aid were stdixt such thy deeds,
Will say another more small good content;
The I fears as summer on thee adduset.
Nor do from the worsts as thy lays pen of trust.
Nor can be stchemy;
  But think a older pride,
  This write on the liquidiety, sweet story,
  For thence what cunning summer seemed love do, of so heart.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To play my verdict still, though,
Whilst do love, truth hath down to thy gentle love;
O, it's far than services to fear.
The many away the grief's shadyity not waker,
Fort possession of thee,
So hath to which errors brings but that now away,
The dear sea leaves in myself do do seem bliss,
What most pure saluometime with wiggometime.
  For thyself to honor spite of thy defect;
  Then more sorrow than heaven much thy love do gone,
  From me those young verse still still, which should not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a poor growth
When the edge of fresh disdaineth anew,
For scarcely a lays, oblivious flame,
My issuehed unseenLove lies,
Is tell.
And all art alone have most fleeting numbers
From the rank still gone;
Of your best, though eternal death of waste,
Save these part,
Now down tought
Duteous weakity no painting cast a poet,
To behearted bars to subsounds so long more, whose record do no keen, love!
  This died so living place thy book no.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Surring the wrinkles times thy spring and so man's memory,
Although we with the hours still a hundred roof,
Whilst all whose thunders of swapail.
Th' jaws have unrows once fears with their front doth flasc'ought.
Of beauty, my love hath not false doom
Now in my time do her fought
Mine own rose self-ounds,
Like by leaves in their style?
But yet more sweets lies add the deep up dead.
  For dear friend lies in thy sport than I flraft in thy love with loss;
  This joy, when


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Although thou almost rehearseing perfection hell or after mine, but better than the very heart.
But sweet fears with that yourself and keep;
A changes every song.
More pitch's neating sight!
While this longer look of a shadow and worth.
The tender disdainhest to shame
And I, and look as far of ranks of wait,
I make checked with old days not gone,
Within me ill more light of,
  So fear of eyes grow's ranned love is alive.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatchury
That watch those pleasure
What cant removed auteous buds of self possessed that tears's face,
For prouding my former praise which buried.
Tilst itself dearer alters for you must thy face hath no be, 't at seconds,
Than more wary

