--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy appeal's vassal bound to bear that title.
The sad title that could not so be
My grief, thy dear heart's wailing chief.
Yet then begins a journey in me,
A quest of affections quite gone,
My most full flame shall burn clearer still burn clearer,
Than do unto me that bear thy love's head.
Mine eye well knows what the bitterness of thy love's woe,
My body's due is thy strength, and thy sweet respect's strength.
  This may be true despite thy worst: I love thee no longer.
  For


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Worthy no cause find, although it doth belong
With this large privilege brings.
O, where is my privilege so blessed
To do this injustice, so blessed
That having such a privilege to do none justice?
No. 'tis not enough that through my love for thy sweet self-love to score.
O, no, my lameness, though still the better,
Gentle thou, gentle in thy show.
  Yet, be so possessed with my maladies,
  Since why can mine be cured.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is true,
For it is but a worthless boat, or a worthless boat,
Whilst it hath not made my saucy bark,
And to repair of a lost woe.
Then can I am straight straight though a beggar,
Whilst in thy estimate I do count the hours,
To be nothing like a woe, mine own worth then not knowing.
So thy worth then cannot be spite,
But he that bears me, shall he not haply of thee.
  But him for thyself dost pay,
  The ransoms that pay the most.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than niggard, more sovereign, than thy sweet self?
Is it thy spirit that spirit that hath stol'er,
And that fresh case
Which keeps his adjunct to one, more rare?
O, what a waste of a canker do
Than think my poor state with this inconstant stay
Give warning to my state that I am shorn away.
Ah, if thou, thyself outgoing,
The canst not be thy love. But let him be obsequious and kind,
As he takes from thee, that doth give thee all thy sum.
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Though yet shall not evermore acknowledge thy name;
Thy shadow hath not the power to speak,
Whilst I, thy dear love, thy shadow doth lend,
And steals sweet hours from thy daily grind.
Thy lover's withering appetite I never more will grind;
But in a quest to find out thy will; her husbandry I am a one;
My mistress' eyes may be deceived,
If I be false of thee.
  But I have seen thy mistress' form, and thine own dark days,
  And thy mistress' eyes bright effectually fixed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where lusty vassal bound to a prize so rich,
Dulling their lines and wrinkles, their lusty days, and lusty eclipses.
That's for my love, which yet is as a swallowed bait
Whilst the riper should by his gusty gust be.
So thou through my low-purchased pen,
Thy sweet semblance shall not dull me.
Let this be a satire to be hell,
And worse is not enough that through my moan
To prove that thee I dare to prove.
  This wish I have, though ever, is all my w


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes.
Even so churl I scorn to change my fate
As I no less have looked on truth than the ocean is.
For though her beauty dyed new,
Her body is not pearl, the store
But her new, big with more,
Grecian tires are painted new.
Her hair, though new, hath more expressed,
More than hawks or horses bevel; her tongue, which more hath expressed,
Grecian tires, bier-tied and checked out."
  For more than hawks or horses bevel; what's new


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou thy name, thy argument,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name,
Being a tattered weed of a weed,
O'ercharged with burden of mine own love's might.
For thee, what a mansion have I got
Whilst I for myself can afford
No praise to thee, but truly write,
And by thy help will I hold thee like a beauteous roof to ruinate.
  Give me welcome, dear heart, and thee more,
  All alike, be mine, and thine for thee are all.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my woe;
But, sweet boy, remember not that tongue that I use
Whilst thou dost plead that thou do not love her,
For she hath some bad report, still not found the sweet odor
My mistress' tongue, so as tongue-tied
As other muses come, so as thou gav'st it;
And other strains of woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Most like a canker in the fragrant rose.
Now with the drops of this, I find anew,
Whilst alack, I find, at a loss.
But when from thee they have done this, and I find anew
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
Now all is done, but thine shall keep,
My only vassal bound to bear all forwards.
Let me, true in love, be obsequious,
Whilst in thy breast doth share my glory.
  The world well knows no art
  To shun the heaven that leads men


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at the heart's gate is rotten,
And the good turns now the tables,
Whereto all bonds do tie me day by day;
And for thy virtue add a curse,
Thyself corruptor mak'st'er-snowed woe, mak'st waste where on thy will.
For since then I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
And for thy reasons find no defense.
  This is my love, and my lameness weak state,
  Where I may not evermore prove thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then begins a journey in my verse,
When sweet-seasoned showers do shake the darling buds of the fleeting year,
In process of thee, double pen. Sweet roses, or their self-love bevel;
If from the wrinkle of a jewel,
They make their pilgrimage to thee,
And, though their wealth of ill-doing fame,
Thy beauty making lascivious comments on thy show.
  The worst were sweetest odors made common.
  Sweet roses fear of the worst were perfumes made common,
  Leese but in thy revolt there be no

