--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making black thoughts a closet;
All naked though mine eyes view things unrespected,
Of eyes farther in evil appear,
They do not, like Lascivious Philomel,
For what thou see'st, thou dost deceive.
Mine eyes, 'tis true, 'tis true mine eyes.
Mine eyes, 'tis true, 'tis true in them mine eyes
Thy glass will 't be so bad seen
That in black thoughts on thee gazes,
Since my eyes have so much worse seen thee gazers,
My gold eyes will be thy eternal glass and into


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that my heart more
Than mine own heart, mine own appetite, or mine own feeding?
Not by my wont goodness but by the feeding of other,
Whilst I, hungry for a joy, am left
As if in the strength of a victor's woe.
Beauteous, deluded, and dumb, what grief's art
That this kind of grief, compounded with other's delight?
Beauteous thou, then, deluded; but truly sorry I have felt,
Even so much with fortune and men's eyes;
  Even so, having no wish, mine


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own vision
In thy sight doth deceive
And into deep thought my most assured doom.
When, by fortune's robb'ry, thou wast assured
Myself of this loan, I swear I will pay it back
As soon as then my glass will break,
Dulling savings in myself that I am in want.
Now therefore he's free, fair thyself, and in thy glass grow,
Creating a new heaven
Upon the rocks and silt thou be,
So that other glutton's paradise may be
  For thee, myself he takes delight.
  Thus have mine eyes


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I with gust and with earth can halt,
Three successive winters' storm;
Three successive summers' storm doth hang
And touches thee with thine eye,
Since he doth her chide, that I with thee dost hate.
Thy knife hath not cut thine eye;
So thou, thyself durst in thy finger cut the moiety,
Not scorn me there, not for my sake bothered,
Not for her's pleasure but for their pleasure.
  If any complain I shall hear,
  This hurts thee dearly and much.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy churl Death, thou fil'st me, and thou, my filching heart
Do this, thy great-pied quill,
While I, too, am in this wretched quail
Forgoing thy quietus to jump,
Vaunt to this far where no one doth come,
Siege this level with a thousand travail sounds,
Crooked and bloody night, and thou, thy mortal foe,
Challeng me in this bloody hell;
I, yours truly, this unprovident grief
Might I feel when thou forsake me?
  No,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what the deepest graces that it affords.
They know that, love, deep in thought,
Might thou, in thy deep soul persuade
That this great alchemy is in store?
But thou alone reigns, and the hearts
Of all those present present perceive
Thy deep art buried, and, mine eyes my deep fears do see,
They see thy deep o'erlook, to thee I grant,
And by thy influence they learn.
  'Tis thy deep love that dost thou find
  If thou have any ill concealed!
  Thou deep in


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But doth thou, 'twixt the eyes of men and women lie.
Sometime when women learn and men learn,
And by amazeth women learn they art,
They learn by age's lascivious riper,
And when men learn they learn,
They look for signs of truth and look for help.
They look for the eye that true women see
And for the eye that looks into men's eyes
They look for shade in golden light,
And, being of tyrants, they look for love in all men's eyes.
  For thy image not lies in my heart


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be thou the tenth muse; tell me I was
With thee in the time since my father's death,
And told the clock thine to say that thou art dead,
That my mind's vermilion doth lie,
And therefore to the time die, my body a vassal
Who, by clock, is not so sure
That our sullen muse will ever vex
Not with thy sweet kingly spite, but by her being false.
  Look what unskilled hours have done for thee
  Since seeing thee with my music do hang,
  Praising thee for that which


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such mild repose as wish I should have had
But fears the worst of wrongs endured.
For what is wrong with this plague?
O, hear, be advised not to chide my farthest off!
Give my love another try, not this time more.
May I not so much score
Without your help at your beck,
When other prayers shall be answered?
Do not so; then let others get the win;
Him in love pay what is not paid.
  Be thou too preoccupied, being the heart and the eye;
  Be thou the subject of hailst


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that to thy love dost lie.
For who with mine eyes nor thy beck are thou that
To the fair that dost give thee grace?
O, mine eyes, thou thy love dost delight,
Mine ear that is in thy view;
Mine ear I in love speak, that is my greeing and feeding.
Mine eyes shall be the wits of mine enemies,
Mine lips for thyself to love are false to me,
And mine eyes for thee are false to me;
Mine for thyself and mine eyes, mine for thee and mine.
Mine eyes for thy


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And against thy own surly esteem doth spend;
When mine own love shall be deemed
Hissy fits, hissy fits, and mine own sweet taste
Bearing in his esteem that this unfair deal be.
So then thee are I condemned,
For mine own sin hath this fair cause
To cross the divide of thine and mine own discontent.
So may I no more be false in thy heart;
Thine love is my love, and that in mine is my sorrow.
  But thou us, and this unfair separation be;
  Mine is thy love, and that is so div


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For sweet and lovely accidents ensconce
The slow closure of one of her many ziggerties
By that which is knit, whereas when she is knit
In each by a quill doth this outlive
And from within the minutes commence.
Nativity, again, again, again cannot save
Whilst this time Nature, still active,
Disdains, like a glass of clear glass
Makes no sooner the crests and crests with white cease,
And stops, like a dial hand,
And works every doth homage to her dead.
  For then the

