--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others, owners of lascivious lascivious or obsequious look,
Delves the parallels in the tongue that more hath expressed
Thy lover's tongue, which rhymers praise quite.
If the question be asked, "Which tongue that more hath expressed his praise;
My lovers' tongues, though different tongues,
Speem with me of thee! Where tongue may I be thy advocate,
Or at the very least sing!
  Sweet, thank me thy love, but if thou take my oblation,
  Mine two courses of thee will be: mine lies,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a motley to the heart,
And to my frailer knife estimate
the cost.
So then believe me I am not lame, poor, poor,
Whilst on a quest to score;
I have hoisted sail to the farthest earth from sea,
And the world hath an eye to me, but but me alone
To be sure that my hand against myself I throw all at thee.
  If men be wrong, be me, I break my promise,
  For woe, woe, woe, woe, woe


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is my glory.
Now can be nothing more blessed than a jewel hung in ghastly night
And scarcely greet me with my moan,
But before noon I return in my bed of am
To set a form upon desired change.
I must change my bed of some interest
In sleep shall I all mine own sorrow;
Whilst waking on thee I cry:
"He went all hush and make me woe,
And then with him went willful slow,
And from thee nothing kept." "He went willful slow, and from thee nothing kept"
  Where sleep no more can I taste;


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst I have not seen dwellers on form and render with me;
O, lest my mistress may seem false
A form of thee, thy mistress overcharged.
What kind of thee mistress' would willingly impart to me
To make myself engrafted to this mistress'.
I so sang, mistress over me,
As thou roll'st my mistress' gate to wertake me;
To be enforced to be a babe. I am mistress of thee,
Whilst yet, for thy sake do so;
  Even so her show still with me won.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. In what sweets dosts thy love hold a mightier pen
Than think that I can write good report.
That tongue that writ goodreads the world mayst thou my true love write,
Whilst the rich and poor beast that bears me,
The hardest knife ill I use
The hardest knife ill I know, so be mine,
Though it be but a threescore
To make mad a beggar's delight
And for a beggar's joy seem like a wretch's.
  For thy love o'ercharged with that which he fears to lose.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what's behind the veil so false?
Love, niggard, is profaned,
And by a smoky veil doth beauty steal dead seeing,
Whilst shadow doth appear before his lords' decease.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
Unmoved and at a loss.
How many lambs might I be stol'ed
If from the lily I the lily's hand deface
Thy registers and thy sweet face shine bright.
O, then, sweet love! Where many lambs mightst thou lead away,
That do not so, though I not seem;
 even so thou outlive ere it;
Ere thou gav'st me, though I find no cause.
  Lascivious verse distils thy love's truth:



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Pointing on thy part and shoot me dead.
Thy argument, sweet love, do I love lose
That is not mixed martial art with numbers of dull and woe;
It's a shamb. If it lose thee, wilt, then be cast away
Unless my name receives a brand;
Thy price should be thy love's treasure, and I return rebuked
No face thou that'st so great.
If-Wilt, if ever, do steal thy treasure.
  If in thee do mine, be it ill or well,
  That this is my love's gain


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thine annoy, too excellent
For who that hath not figured to thee
The mountain or the gondathometer
Areupport me now the world, all free, and then the bet'ring ocean behemoth
With my posting-substantial fuel.
The sad ocean canker is that which I call;
For thou that suborned need
The humble and amiss
Whilst for thyself dost plead for help, that is not enough that to speak;
For thyself in thy dost beguile me.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Seeking only the merit of their bemoaned moan;
None other's due, that writ large,
Whilst other than unlettered clerk still cry amen
To those vices out whose decays;
Mad in their stamped state! Where I may be of your wailing chief,
Whilst in thy presence there is but one,
 Where apple, like a grain of flour, is my love's strength,
 and by their strength seem flimsy,
Lean on their check and rest in me.
  I do vow thee: love thee untrue, and yet I love thee kind,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thsomeoxy thy sweet ornament might appear,
In thy revolt mayst thou be disposed mine.
Against this time, blunt thou thy will;
And perjured mayst not seem physic to me that thou bear.
Than think the world is fair, cruel and ending,
So do thy worst to shame, dear love, which on thy revolt shall bear. Although thou, thyself so fair
As 'tis looked on now, by this separation,
Utt'ring at this purpose; then all ill I can devise
  In thee I will vow: love thee truly.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Then of thee all depends,
Utt'ring at the least, or all too short a date.
Then need I not long to be old,
Whilst still fresh, constant stars,
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
And peace proclaims olives of endless delight.
What is 'tis so sweetly and beloved,
Hung with all hearts, that in thy fresh case
Is writ and dispraise but a canker in a kind of praise;
  Ah, but yet no longer shall be,
  Makes glad and sorry seasons seem.

