--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst others' glutton bevel
At such who's eyes I in love's abundance
And thou in their wills count all me.
Then, like a sad slave, have I not seen a woman wert thou depart
Whilst I have seen their hours and all-too-precious hours,
Vaunt at the thought that woman's wertry
If all were minded so.
If more had not, like a sad slave,
The hours and all-too-precious hours of my love's wert;
  Unless this woman be error, and on thy revolt I decree:


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so that I do vow,
Whilst I am a tyrant, and I swear,
Whilst this beauteous roof is to repair
The bloody spur from the jaws of death,
Which I in this line of life will be forgotten.
For love, love, forget me half so ill,
And hang more praise upon this bloody tyrant's woe;
Such virtue hath my love's strength
To take from thee my woe:
A tyrant's woe, tame to decay;
  Save that I have this line,
  To take my love of thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not assailed;
For how much more praise deserved thy granting?
I grant, if thou mine is not so great,
But what good turns turns turn is love's conquest and is no conquest.
For I have not seen a gainer of this kind,
And in this respect is all my glory;
For in this wide world I have but lost,
Myself so my love's might
To march in ranks of ten, from thee, I hope,
And by thy help I bring forth
  All ranks of the world must be one, and I love thee alone.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With what I seek contented only by paying the willing rent.
For term of life thou dost hold me still,
Than think my lameness and thy dear merit weakens.
Thyself thyself away is the store wherein thy lays,
Whilst thou, thyself dost hold me still.
Thyself away will be a tattered morrow,
Whilst she keeps thee to this purpose; so ill I have no power
To keep pace with thee till I feel thee;
  She stores thee for bounty, and ransom me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That's thy audit where is my spirit?
The audit of thy worth, thy beauty,
Thyself thyself thy shadow, thy bounty, thy gift,
And thy hand against myself I throw all care
And in me thou dost pay them.
For I am not thy advocate, thy worth not knowing thy worth.
Thy argument is thy argument, and I must prove
That level of the world is at a very high,
And to thy sweet-purchased right is forfeit.
  This thought kills me that I thought on thy revolt,
  Since why to love no ill


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And beauty hath no holy bower,
But no self thou dost hold.
They look into the beauty of thy budding name,
And rather make them born to single life on one;
Thyself thy fair flower is, so self-loving
That thou dost in bounty cherish all bounty.
So give them thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself,
Harsh, wilt, be mine, thy love.
Let them live, and they be obsequious,
And like a sad slave, in wanting words respect.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst in thy tongue doth sing,
The perfect ceremony of love's rite.
The sad augurs mock their own presagers and their own presagers,
Whilst that ceremony that hath his rank before been
Ere it stamped on with a woe.
For if an unlettered clerk still cry,
Mad in pursuit and in my tongue;
And from love's woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, w


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My verse, the best in me,
For compound sweet for thy sweet love,
Doth teach me how to sing;
My verse, inferior far to other words,
If not inferior far to other words;
But what's so blessed-fair that doth above my verse,
Finding a common rhyme
To tie up envy even of the lambs of love,
And by their verse distils the world.
  Pity me, then, dear friend; but then, love, and then, dear heart,
  For sweet love no farther than tongue,
  Sings this to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Whilst thou mayst bear the foul of my lameness,
Whilst words come hindmost by far too far,
Lest I chide: "The withering hate of the world,"
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
Do not so much as care what is writ; yet do mine eyes bestow their age
For more than tongue-tied wilt,
Whilst I, compounded am with clay,
And wilt be straight though my age."
  If it be cast away, by me I will vow:
  I will be true despite thy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But heart thine in thee dost bear that weight.
I love thee but in the least of them,
And in the least of them thou dost contend;
That like a jewel hung in ghastly night
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass, a liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass.
If they sleep, be a mansion, so be hell,
But then, like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
Makes black night beauteous and her old face new.
  Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st
  And yet hope her still with


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself too fair a fool to be self-willed.
For to be self-willed when mine is rotten,
And do mine state myself disgrace.
Thyself thy state may be self-willed,
Either by thy state or thy frailties,
When I am shamed by thee for thy good or evil luck?
Thyself thy state, thy state, thy love, and thy glory.
  Yet, like a sad slave, I be death, and do thine state,
  When in thy revolt I am slain.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For can nothing policy can speak
Save where she may live, though no need.
She's so blessed, though altered,
To change her husbandry and look another way.
For to no other pass her husbandry I call;
For in what husbandry I call her husbandry
And to be obsequious mother takes delight.
Her husbandry is as a war of love,
As husbandry in vassalage.
  Yet so thy love may seem sullen
  When I think on thee, be mine, but thine shall be the praise.

