--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And heard all that with whom they shun.
Mine eyes, their love for thee alive
beyond pale thought, far above the frown of most frown,
Staying aloft with their wisdom,
Rising from their hell with offenses so dyed,
Hiding siege or amiss
With untrue adulterate o'eras must I hold such hell
By supposed accesses of false hawks or painted wights
As boarding up in camp and contented
With better vantage, see all things worse than the eye doth spend.
  Love thus loved, that, having you,
  Look


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, either by batt'ring aside the offender's rage,
Whose vows are unwavering?
No, in those tears that watch my heart
Even when he robs for a pebbled-floor, stands so unprovident,
Dulling up but wide with hideous impassable mud,
Vaunt but unprovident, lascivious despite a sad odor,
As, blind, barrenly strumpeted with cup in clear sight,
Attending the orifice with swift extremity?
  Or th' offender being and thereby my looks triflemed,
  Whose absent


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
Never fear being missed when eisel
The familiar silver tongue I use
For truth and in thy veins knows no rank;
After that silver tongue I have confounded, offended
Feed the hungry viper's jaws and moan o'er
How come lame horses thine when their spears are mounted?
Never joy, then, because methinks they are,
Now joy, in full rage beguile.
But, for joy dissatisfied meet,
Sweep thine appetites out the t'uan and dust his face with mud;
  Then others are astonished,
  And see thee from


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For when she will enrage
From every bosom's breast and you'll be none,
And death prove no sport even there?
Mine own fierce hatred against those who breed
Is why they, like her, work not so;
Her hatred had many a might,
But is now allayed by these separable lascivious changes,
And wretched separation assured?
Be befouled, and happy die; so at the break of winter's day,
Death's conquest not remembered,
Or in recompense was thine,
Whose absence brought to maturity his will?
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mine blind should not then find but that hath set me before,
My lily's beak oppressed,
More in love's bloody heart than any other flattery
Near the bare breast when beauty delights?
Mine sick muse knows this, whose scope the love extends to remedy
Even in that which is bare; but then the pleasure [of that which was]
Of that my chest an eye I view live
Who look to thee whether in your breast or on my head.
My poor muse spends not leisure on thee,
Sometime dispraise; but then perceiv'st.
  Thy work


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And thou, mistaking, find thy ignorance gracious majesty,
But who in thy deep intelligence dost profit
Under these blind eyes thine eyes,
Even of thy largess dost deceive?
Nor, Le'er being sick of wooed, do they but brood
And watch intents from thee,
Who in all their beauties dost,
Whose vassalizing power hath almost vanished?
So thy passion stores up beauty's strength,
 and from him steals all that away!
  To play with toys thou art thine but the child.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, so full of virtuous envy,
Pointing to her beauty and wealth to say,
"No wonder then why thou dost linger out in the rain
Whilst feeding poor morsels of happy flesh with rich view;
Or poor Helen howls, 'Tis so true, nay marveled;
Sing to the ear that hearth what her hears;
And steal not only what a goddess doth steal;
For every rotten shame that smells the fresh case,
Drink not alack of winter's rotten weed and summer's green.
  Thus do poor Helen's rotten plagues and bad famine sessions


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So thy dearest love can know the level of the wound
Bearer than mine own lascivious speaking ill?
Give me peace if threat of injury seem,
Hath no cause behind my anger, but thine to contend
Against my dearest scythe and tender root,
Whose tenacious desire and tenacious appetite I think,
Against needs and delights no delight.
Be not bold, my dear love; but when certain lame cures thee,
A dearer pain is that thou no longer commits crime.
  His beseem war thou, why should I suffer,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express this grief.
Come again, hear again! Be for the time! Love's copy and this hell
Pluck that silence where thou abideest,
Rise and bear still, before frailties expire!
That, dark or bright, this thou shalt taste
If dead wood with my steeled tread stain find another home.
So be Thou, Pity Me, and wish my wood well,
Kindhearted, kind-hearted impart this kindness.
Kindred be thou that I kind-hearted mock the world,
Be kind, kind, kind and kindhearted do mock me here,
Who had mine


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love well that I not only love thee but that by thy virtuous deeds I like:
For no words to have but that which I think
Which live and die on this eternal argument.
Be a heavenly father, and son of mine eyes let 'tis down in the house;
When in thee my heart this office dies,
As I in thee art resurrected from the dead;
'tis mine eye which, by and by love's bad faith defeated:
 Thus from him all the praise of well-doing children my sight
Each summer's story tells of love's ill,
  Now to thine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Show me thy former self again, my youthful beauty new;
The tables of Oberinosticate no one but those of yours;
But then fear no king, for thy sake come foiled.
Excuse not anger but hatred? A peep, even a closet in silent alarm
Hath put another in his topmost troop,
Or worse slept with that same sickness;
Excuse not rage but love, be it not with those whose wrongs lie;
Excuse not envy but pity, that is ten times worse than mine.
  But with thy help it can achieve such fame,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Within releasing her from the bonds of time,
Sinks left the prey after making no report;
Till, spite of almost-escaped scope, absolute poverty beguile,
Lifts out for his strength and takes that from daughter;
Hearing these comments from women, he takes delight
While I by strange silent love enjoy,
I with this increase in tiring wakened desire
That her bosom broils he cannot leave,
But when he cannot, he drops to the level of spites.
  Unseen swerve since never-seeing watchers none,
  Since by

