--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of thine,
For thou this replete hate, my envy,
Darkens every flower and every body in every sight,
Of this whereinof I art buried and wherein I am despised,
Thine eyes at heart countenance full,
Thy self this sad state that is delayed,
Such dyed travail in their thoughts as they kill,
That to me this replete rage mourns
And, pitying themselves, even takes time away from them.
  But I the eye, knowing thee sick,
  Gave thee thine augurs,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I will no longer suffer
Than when thou dost purge my brow and thy breast;
Mine is yet the first blot that travels on thy face,
A blot that heals me even when thou wilt,
And when thou boast'st in their love affairs,
My rage stops and so they both depart,
Since once their besiege'st of me grows greater,
Than now I joy no more, yet have esteem
Than again their long siege be endured,
  Which, despite of thee, my rage loves itself with bitterness.
  Thy hells, my slumbers


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
Then whether he be present or absent I am far from my mind,
Or else what shall he say,
My dear sweet wife, that this shall give thee their fortune?
My dear love for thee doth rank among many,
That if you yield thence I shall be rich,
That thou desire'st not to be despised,
For thou graciously dost trust in me.
If he be absent I fear myself buried,
And thou for my sake dost mine lie buried.
  But that can not persuade me to bring him in,
  Which, fearing lest thou meet


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or if I this wretched fortune come t'appear
By skill and manners removed,
Why should I enjoy what thou seekest,
Hath, by virtue's shady ransoms, strumpeted,
With truancy and self-love wastebought?
It may be said that thou alone amst mine,
More than enough I that miserly grant,
More deserving than thy unwretched husbandry.
Thy worth lies where thou art, more than that thy not.
Be not so to me, mine mine own worth issueless.
Mine own worth lies not in thy dece


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What praise can praise make that can never be false?
Look how, like a swine, thou fall'st upon thy brain,
Till thy limbs are bare with food,
And soon to death by thy enemies.
The night is bad, the day good, and each receives his daily sick break.
I did a mournful oblation when thou blackest,
Sorbing deep in thy breast and breast's paws;
At that my spirit rose up
That seemed buried deep in thy bosom's chest,
Thy health seemed vouchsafe, yet so seem thy bones.
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They hear but inconstant recitations,
They taste but no souls; their sight is full of wonder.
No more false prophecies canst thou dost deceive,
Thou what art such a maligned treasure
Where the flower of women's souls is grown;
Thou, thou mad I time, mustst invent another to dwell.
For they that think in thee lack witness,
They wouldst know a goddess play
Where with thy beauty dost dwell.
  No wonder, they wouldst read the poets that dost rehearse,
  Which though they lacked eyes could see in thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That took her wherever she went; yet, she flies away.
My love cannot write it out nor int'rim tell it
Since my decease could effect how far I from thee.
Mine eyes, for they are pluckers of numbers,
They find but ill-applied numbers not the true papers;
Therefore methinks thou shouldst burn me out most in thy image.
Thou, my love, hast no love better than false astronomy
Or thy name poets when they thrive.
  As the days should I travel on earth my babe wilt grow old,
  And shouldst she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what I love none more nor less I know.
Be proud and virtuous alike, but not alone in that
Sensation. Make amends, that thou do war upon me
And worst of all enemies within
All laws and all men's rights to leave.
Thou, wretched quest of thought, hast proved none,
Nor Time nor Nature but abuses as thou art.
Hadst my sight art blind, thou art impaneled to see
And most barren all barrenness everywhere.
  Even that worms which pride so dearly grow worms
  That eat away thy heart's body's worth.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express good moods.
For since thou art fair, how should I comfort myself,
I being by no means dumb?
Why should so great a monument be placed
Where men's brains still dwell in their warlike deeds,
Knowing their dead call the fresh acquaintance,
Or those sick days toil away?
The wood boughing that heavily bears the heat,
Feeds on a burning sun, and makes a bitter weed;
But this thou neglects: thou wilt have none in me.
  All this might not be wished for, for me only doth approve.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whose parts art in me debarred.
Since their spoils they have not left nothing for treasure,
Dost thou, willing thy lily to mend
By fortune's crooked hand and thief in heart?
Mine own heart, like the clouds in my face,
Deserves disgrace every tear and takes delight at thee.
I see thee in very poor faith
Strikes through the weed which my love calls thine;
The stars do not hate thee, nor they that love thee but thee.
  But thee, much despised, that for love canst thine fruit besiege.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which love shall live by the all-loving offense.
Love is the seat wherein good and evil live;
But thou mine is not my love's seat;
My state is this; that thy love may dwell
Within my region not seen with dark eyes,
Whilst other parts of the world see thee,
By varying that which thou dost cause to stain.
The son of love can do nothing,
Not for thy glory nor thy worth nor thy honor
Nor his own beauty nor his tall glass nor his buried truth.
  And none but love's fair is so despised.
  Lest


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The swiftness of her swiftness I know;
But what am I to contend with it,
Unless I am possessed with an audit of spirit,
Which I must niggardly perceive to be false,
Or ten times more cruel than true to believe.
For a woman wrackless
She goes and finds woman where she grows,
And all her delight spends is wasted in false dancing.
  She, mended, spends the time of love;
  All bitterness to my grave hurls up again.

