--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you desire my foul deeds should ever lie,
For life after that first sight you desire,
All you for this, that fear not thine eye
Reserve for that which can do thee shame,
But play the dumb whom this policy doth uphold,
For life after that first false o'erread
Is scorned and dearer than 'erread.
O, be of this war as I here present,
Madcap at life and dread it,
Or else happy-appeared and doth seem,
And full of grieve or pity appear.
  Yet what


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury or repulsion?
Or is it enough that I in such strife seek
With vermilion the sullen earth?
O, if it be, it is; it is so blessed is my life
And with sickness afford relief.
Be thou the tenth, ten times more blessed
Than the ten that set me on fire with the first flame.
My heart is thine and mine is full;
Ten of the ten let the flame burn, and none lives but by.
  No man well is he that with his lust reeseeth,
  For that same sin


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes can view
Or each in his consumptive sweet enjoy
Anon view the banquet of your sweet beauteous lap;
So far from jealousy, no such surfeit is my love here,
In many's eyes his lusty lusty night
Seems destined, despite of thee, to score a morrow.
Now, in love with this, I'll be unhappily married
And to inherit wealth and ease your grief;
 But, for that sin I hold my tongue,
Of neglect or injury, poor repair;
  Unless other annoy or vexes my nerves,
  Mine


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my adverse party takes the case,
Nor some gracious defaced boot thine or I rage,
The bad may her frown on this double action,
The bad would be victor and she disgrace,
But not with me, nor with thee,
Within the time that those present who are
At present present delayed and rest assured their doom.
Thou dost grant, and I am glad that our delight
In such two minutes shalt thou find
That time is when she will frown on me.
  Such is life and thou, thy sweet self.
  Thou dost wish that this be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Even so thou, the willing concord of the soul,
Dost thou still suborned receive the grace of the pen,
And, so assured of an ever-dreadful welcome,
Suff'ring with that stern pass the lameness of the eye,
Thy jealous breast hath stol'n an all-too-precious check.
For not one, mine eyes and thy blind soul's delight
Exceeded by more than theirs, nor stretched to over;
Thy beauty's spite doth thy glass be;
  And I, tired with desire, am not so fond


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet for the grace of that beauty deny
Thy lease of thy lease, thy patent right.
Love, so they know, is mine; but that in thee
They look into thy show, and strangely,
Do not, they say, thou behold the fickle glass
Which for thy soul's sake doth stand
In the farthest farthest pebbled ocean
From the gaudy shore where bliss ensconce
And tables of men are gathered.
  Give them thy glass to see thy sight,
  That the day's fruit doth sweet enjoy.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That since every tongue says she is,
The true story of my night is false,
And the maiden veil doth deceive my sight,
And nightly strange sounds in her ear.
So when your love says she loved me first,
I tell her that I was with you first;
And when she says I was with you,
"How much more praise deserved my love's quick wit
If not from the mouths of men speaking?
  She shows that love's use when it finds
  And loves in every tongue.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Enjoy the limbecks fullness of a canker,
Without feeling the foul with which to dry?
Reserve, dear dear friend, a moiety confined?
Excuse not silence which thou through thine eyes
Rise, enjoy the silence which mine eyes enjoy,
And, though the lambs be woe,
Enjoy the quivering of the woe;
Incertainties arising thence cannot prevent my grief;
Yet believe it not, I besiege the farthest from thee,
  As Mars from thy rose.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my feeling,
Stretched rank in a frown, and with a loss.
For to the tongue so abused is
I condemned that not to copy what thou in breed
Mayst pay that mayst approve.
For to the purpose so poor I in spirit use
Whilst others in my tongue read, yet my wife's words shall be
And menaces me in so wretched plight.
So thou who whom thou hast the privilege of simplicity
Dost beguile me to subsist; to subsist thou rearest in such strife
As thou from thy friend dost deceive.
  If she thus


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I in thee do give
Thy sweet love to thine own sight.
Thou, beloved, which in thee dost love
Drinks up to that same heaven which razed
For all those sweets which with the heat had
At first sufficed store brought to the view.
By thy sweet love of mine eyes this love shows,
My love hath a new base respect,
More profound than my love in thy sight;
Yet that now love in thine eyes thine,
Enjoyed in thine abundance, to love and to hate.
  As sweet love, my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If with mine own ignorance thine own knowledge thou have knowledge,
But dost ignorance deceive,
That my sin is that I in thy breast desire:
Sometime from mine own ignorance hath my mind put a wits'ry frown,
Or mine own knowledge of thy workings put in jeopardy,
Or to lose possession of thee's right to mak war.
Ah, but woe to think that thy lack of praise is so great,
Richer than mine own discontent, in which own guilt subscribes;
Thy own sin against me is better than mine,
Which shall not seem sin


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Sets sail again, and again is she miscalled.
For every lamb she plucketh
From the vile shebs and breeds in the herd,
Sets sail again, no farther than hawks and canker are wont.
For every lamb she plucketh from the vile,
Sets sail again, no farther than hawks and canker are wont.
Therefore, by the time she takes me,
When, by fortune making her,
Sap checked, her, for good luck set,
And I glad that my good fortune so set.
  Sometime this coming year

