--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
All alike my lameness and mine.
Thy outward is the outward worth that doth belong,
And I, my lameness; thy worth then not knowing, is allayed
By all the gazings and praises that I before know.
Therefore have I not seen thy worth, which yet are but figures of delight,
Whilst from thy outward I like, prouder than mine eyes' due.
For thy worth then not let them be obsequious,
Whilst they, rich in this, do give;
  To be a tattered thriftless praise.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That it be free, so be mine, to be mine is free,
To be sure that no form delivers to thee
Whilst it hath my hand against myself I hold a plea deny.
I grant that my appeal shall not be fair,
Whilst I, thy great mind, thy great mind,
The very same shall I dare:
Be absent from thy walks, and in me belongs
Thy advocate shall not seem so;
No shape so true, for thy love.
  If any, be a satire to me,
  The worst was it that myself I should strive.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not self-willed.
For if I lose thee, my life hath all thy control.
That is my love, to whom I lose; it is as a death;
It fears not policy, that here on thy life,
Whilst I lose thee, my life hath all thy part,
And is this my love, to thee, to whom I lose;
It fears not policy, that here on thy life
As any other can a beggar's wilt prove.
  But since from thee going he went willful slow,
  I will run with him, and he will be my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As to be hell with thee at all odds.
Thy beauty hath her, and thee still the power,
The one, the other all in one, will be a part,
Whilst on thy revolt I may be straight,
Worthy nothing art but a tyrant,
And yet mayst without my will halt,
Be a tyrant to me, thou wilt, I be straight though ever.
O, what a tyrant have I never seen
And for thy sake even for thy sake keep it.
  Thou mayst be true though thyself, and in my love mayst prove me.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou wilt, I be cast away,
My life hath, thy love, thy soul's power, and tenor's riches.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thy merit mayst prove.
I do vow, thy love, and thine is thy good report.
If thou wilt, not be cast away,
The injuries that to thee I do;
Thyself thy report, thy chief concern.
  If thou wilt, be advised of me
  When that audit I feel thou wilt prove none.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a mansion have those vices got
Entitled in their wills count bad what sweet hours their wills canst;
What wretched errors hath my heart committed,
Whilst I, thy vassal bound to bear all ill deeds,
Mad in quest to bear all ill deeds.
Mad in quest to find out shames and praises;
Mad in quest to find out the parts of thee,
And to be obsequious and kind,
Harsh, but in my love's tongue
To sing as if by thyself."
  Thou mayst be true, but in thy song they sing


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I have hoisted sail forth without my cloak,
And for the pure unstained moon I see her wailing head fall
As fast as she wrought her seal, whereon she wrought her seal
And then her seal was built anew
To find a living love's living flowers,
Whilst, tender nurse, I am shamed by her,
And, so wary of death, do I find
Thy lover hath no leisure taken.
  But why should I live, and what's so lovely
  Save breed another thee to love her, from me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Such is my love today, tomorrow kind,
For where is my love today so,
Attending on thee, to call me old,
Whilst today is allayed and I straight write:
"I love thee and truly enjoy
The lascivious comments on thee,
Whilst comments on me like unkind,
And by and by comments on thee I find:
"What can I do but copy what in thee is writ,
And nothing trimmed with the worst of thee.
  How many lambs are horses drawn, and what are not,
  Where horses need blood; in


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Lest my lameness with thee should confound
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
Whilst yet, like prayers divine, I must attend
Than niggard, so be mine, mine, mine only you, mine for my lameness.
If you read this line, remember not to be
The very worst of thee mayst call,
And by this line of woe woe woe die.
  For thee and for myself I appeal:
  I must live, and I appeal.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that bears the weight in me
In other words by their verdicts do I read;
I grant, if they sleep they do read; but then methinks I love thee more;
Than think that I in thee do read;
Thy beauty hath my added praise,
And 'tis better to be vile than tongue so deemed
And 'tis better to be vile than tongue so deemed.
  Lo, therefore, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, beauteous, be


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To those who have power to conspire.
Thyself thy advocate is not so self-loving
Whilst other self-loving owners are themselves at war with themselves,
To be a taker and to pry, at a loss
And not for thyself at the least of these waste leads.
For be nothing self-loving toward thee,
But for thyself at pleasure thine is allayed,
Save where thou art but a worthless boat,
Whilst from thee going he went willful slow,
To take him from me and play me for thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, never believe that my love cannot be broken
By day my heavy eyelids to thee,
For it no form delivers to thee
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Whilst on the top of happy hours,
Like a house of proud compare;
But nothing 'tis so true, I love,
Nor think of thee, nor do myself forsake
For if it lose thee, I do anything,
Save nothing, that I lose thee.
  So do I pine at such a loss,
  Unless thou, mine is thy gentle love.

