--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill
The glassed eyes that do their best,
But I find thy soul and thy praise
Stunning in every hue, and sickly woo
So heavily in blame mine eyes and thee.
The other nights I look upon thy face,
But what I most love is not thy beauty,
Nor thy being, nor thy worth that hath got thee,
But that my youth wastes away;
The second night of that second joy, that thou when hungry prove
Not worth all thy graces.
  If that day so were to die my sweet love would dispense


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That the hell with all my woes may my love so long live.
To look on fate with bad eyes is to see 'twill no love vanished;
But now I myself weep
And mine own sweet sweet and true love writ that I should die.
My friend knows not how to love me,
Neither this nor that which I owe;
Therefore, when the latch affords him one, he calls it love.
  My grief that I lose then is nothing but love's happy accident.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hath more.
Now when the bank is gone, thou shall know
My gains and losses are not so big
As they seem now;
Nor in what land thy sweet love's spirit took from me.
Since then trust is my defense,
The bank to me thy loss is unlooked for.
Therefore when thou shalt prove true, trust is thy defense
And thou in trust'st thy sweet treasure to stay.
  For how much more thine wastes thy pleasure
   Than being struck with pleasure and made new rich?


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than the earth's spring where water brackish from the basins,
Hiding where the budding days proceed.
Then many ere long those spring's tresses can live,
Shall they be desert, or be saucy
From the spirit world, nor themselves grown.
So shall thy spring soon be dry and ruined,
And barren waste come to decay.
Therefore, yet thou shalt yet be a widow.
  Make no comment whatsoever on that which thy lover dost lie.
  Unless some rose be enough, that may sweetly flowers cover thy tomb.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thou, whose eye this mine receives,
Who on thy stone not eyes so much perceive,
Is the controlling and controlling jewel,
For eyes that, like fingers, with mouths to wrinkle
Have given that sweet jewel the gift of grace.
Thou art the thief in this art;
Thou art, truly, the gift of all my bliss.
  I do not audit thee to witness,
  Yet then on trusty account, I can see thy deeds
  Where all other offenders dare hide.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know thy art in all beauty's beauty's truth,
They know not thou art the rich'st treasure that sweetly dost in wide show.
Ah, thou art, truly rich! but what treasure dost thou use,
Thou art rich because thou hast such a rich scope
That thou still surmount'st thine eyes to see what thou gav'st
Of mouthed beauty dost look into the darkness.
  But thou must have such a vision, even so,
  That see not thy beauties so well as in thine eyes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which for this art thou mine own shouldst maintain
For nothing better nor in spite of thy affairs.
Her name, that lies painted, would best prove
So untainted in strange shadows I may not straight desert,
Nor if, masked by a dark night, I should live--
Of thine own judgment, I to another go.
Nor, having absent loved, might I think of her--
But I hope thou art deceived,
O, that love's inconstant treasure in me
Seeking by her fortune's decree!
  So she fled to decay in that thou deceiv'st me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Harshly put another soul in my breast,
That my private virtue might be looked upon,
Lest thou should make my grief what thou wilt end,
Whilst the life of the scythe must have gone.
The infection that this third deformed womb
Wires upon my nerves, and I die in this torment.
Thy sacred love should in thine eye besiege me,
Lest the world to throw thee back
In such a state of peace that thou durst burn
With thy infection in my brain.
  Thy adulterate blood well knows how to blame



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my pleasure.
For I am thus the sovereign tyrant of sounds:
In speaking my knowledge is divided
Averse to thee, to thine own scythe;
Not to thyself I change my delight,
Nor to thy doting youth my praise.
Thou art my tyrant's slave, my body being thy tyrant's key.
To thee my pride, not to thy skill,
Hath been bred all vassalized, no religious guilt,
But to his powerful control I feel alack.
  His charter gives that right, which I love so much;
  But from this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And, for thy reasons too much for frown,
Mine own heart that is at variance;
For what thou dost change, no matter where thy heart,
Hath an altered state of mind,
Aching to repair or else to strive,
Thy love hath not a thousand but ten times the sum of my thoughts.
Mine eyes this hope may render,
And mine own mind that I hear often razed;
Mine own eye that is therein leads. Thy esteem lends thee dignity,
Therefore thou hast more right to think about thine eye,
  Which, though it repent, keeps their


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For why should I think it acceptable when thou mine?
O, not so, for mine own rank thought is a sad story.
O, but mine own thought, who dost thou think o'er
Boundless hate, must upon thy look kill,
That is, by nature, cruel to men.
No, my shame, in love of thee,
Never mak'st nor will I lose that sight
Of hatred's way of making hate mock.
  In thy esteem of me, be thou mine; in my delight be thou me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For what true bred beast ever sheds
Than thine fair pluck, tame-footed heredity,
Which numbers as far back as hissing women tend?
Or if hest not, beauteous alchemy,
For his minion hath married thine own bastard.
Since this accident my mother fell in love with his verse,
Which I love so much, yet yet make no joy;
  And thence is she married to thee.

