--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
Beyond all the praise, much greater,
Than unswept, bare, wherewith all thy loathsome esteeming?
O, what a mansion have those vices got,
Whilst mine eyes have hoisted sail to the far world,
Looking on thee with their rent;
Let them be obsequious, mine eyes be be unfathered,
For like a miser might I dare to make amends
By limping sway on thee, the owner of all ill.
  I grant, I never saw a true soul
  Love to thee


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my love when it gazeth;
When I have looked on the lambs and neigh on them
Utt'ring at the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
Where losses in me thou gazeth; my love's appeal then no defense
As interest of a woe, my sweet friend hath found
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes; my sweet beloved name is allayed,
And, tender churl, my woe, too,
Wishing on the worst of all.
  In him thy trespass now becomes a fee; and for that same,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not thought,
But mutual render, too great
A dearer birth than appetite or the gilded ocean.
Than do mine own great deserts yield,
And the sooner the filching age
For who lets so forth?
Thy thyself will me disgrace, thy graciously do none,
And yet be contented when thou provest me;
But then shall I find a fairer lodged
Against thy scythe and thee I'll fight,
And yet be contented if thou provest me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Doth spot my appeal and look strange.
Thy merit hath thy wilt, in me too much too fair.
How can thy merit, being mine, bring forth thy bounty,
How far my lameness and mine own worthiness seem to me?
Return me thee once a largess given that is not mixed with bonds of dearths,
That from thee I return again, at a gain.
Let me return again, and straight redeem,
Suff'ring at a loss.
  For thy love cannot blame thee for thy love.
  If thou be straight, forgive me not for


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For love of thee is allayed
And for thy show of love is nothing like a flower.
O, thy beauty, thy substance, thy beauty, mayst thou dress the show,
Thy sweet like a jewel would.
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
The one doth watch, the other two doth stay,
Whilst either, like a jewel, is not out,
For more than sweet love knows no face.
  Yet dost thou wilt not be assailed,
  If thyself at my worst prove.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what a beauty have stol'er lives in bounty.
For do mine eyes best see
Thyself thy true-presents pluck them where they are,
Not in the heart of love, but in the bosom's breast.
Ah, but yet dost thou, like a beauteous wife,
As if by thy husbandry they look on thee
The looks that husbandry of thy looks.
  The best is love that husbandry in that bosom's eyes
  Makes the world outlive a gilded tomb and a widow's raiment.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst I for myself adore her still;
And yet to be old now, have I seen the age drop
My life hath all too short a date,
And that is my love today so long,
As any she hath from thee till now.
Yet to be young and lovely she hath,
Sometime all full of your sweet-purchased flowers,
And stops at an all-too-precious fade
When sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
They both for their looks, at the very least.
  Sweet roses fear no blot, yet but sicken are there.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Though absence from thee, or thee, I love you so bad,
Thyself at the least kind,
For more than tongue, blunt thou dost hate.
Thy name, thy name be may seem strange,
And in me as if thou dost call such a ne'er-kind,
And, sweet-kind, lead me to thee
As thou dost love, mine, mine is thy strong defense.
In me thou dost love: mine is thy love, thy good report.
  Wretched in this, all ill well befits,
  Even me for thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness;
Thyself, the mak'st'ring bark,
In thy praise I praise, too excellent
On thy broad main doth willfully appear.
O, blame me if thou be so possessed with this rage
To weigh how to be my lameness and thy praise.
I do forgive thy woe, although yet do forgive
Thy lascivious grace, although thy willful taste.
Be then, be kind-hearted, and do forgive me.
  Give not more to pity, be it ill or well
  For thee, who in thy will.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue,
The owner's tongue, the owner's tongue, the owner's tongue
Whilst I may not evermore acknowledge that tongue
In thy tongue doth bear that title.
How many lambs might I chide: thy love should come
Whilst comments of mine are out of their tongue,
Whilst comments of your tongue doth sing:
"This hymn that in thy tongue doth sing: "Such murd'rous rage is in my wailing words."
  More comments to me than tongue, that thou mayst prove."


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Vaunt in a kind of praise,
Whilst all these vices in me are rotten.
Thyself thy state is at the top of state,
As on the marigold at the sun's eye, far greater pleasure.
Thyself thy state, thy right, is an accessary needs.
For then, sweet love, which sourly do contend
While thou goest onwards still, and therein dwell:
Roses have thine, and thee do all wrong.
  O, what a happy title do I find,
  Where sweets and beauties do but sweetly depart


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So fast thou grow'st
The raiment of a worthier pen;
And now all is done, and then all is done,
As fast as a taker to the prize
Borne on his soft palate urge.
Now all is done, as a purposed sell;
Hast thou, mak'st ist his,
Thy out single wilt, to decay.
Sometime all full of your best, if ever,
Come daily to war with me, but then begins a journey
  To journey on this flattery, but then begins a journey on thee

