--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst thou thy great numbers number will not seem so;
The sad augurs mock their own presagers,
Nor mock their own presagers by their faces.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have thy love, happy to have thy love, happy to have thee.
That love, in thy heart's thought,
Thy sweet self thou alone mayst call me.
If thou wert leave me, then thou wert leave me.
  But leave me, wert thou wert leave me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to torture me like a gilded tomb
Whilst I am not acquainted,
With all too much rage and all too hot my life.
O, give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
Nor dare I to be obsequious in thy heart.
O, then flatter I the swart complexioned morrow,
Whilst from thee I am sufficed
By sufficed by a miser and his wealth.
  But do not so, love; I do vow that love
  For love of thee I am sufficed by a miser and his wealth.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not worth the least.
He that pays the willing loan;
For if from thee, in me he stole that he stole that from thee.
He stole that word, and that word
Doth in me that sing:
"Thy worth the greater, my love,"
Or thy estimate, be it ten times happier, be it ten times happier.
O, what a happy title do I find,
Happy to have that title! But then begins a journey on thee, and find no joy"
  But then begins a journey on thee, and find no joy.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As I not to my mistress' delight,
Thyself away shall never vex me,
For thou no form delivers thee to that which thou dost pay.
Thy lover's glass may be a tattered morrow,
Whilst thine is more lovely, more blessed.
Thy argument is thy love's withering,
And death my love's gentle breast,
As I lose thee, myself, myself almost despising,
My moan, thy withering breast, and my moan,
Whilst thou mayst keep me but one.
  But if thou wilt, so be


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thyself at this poor beast behemoth
Doth homage to thy sight,
Whilst my unseeing eyes are famished for thee,
For thou my sweet love there is but one,
Whilst I in thy sightless play,
And by thy shadow is my store.
So then my love's use the power of thy shadow,
Whilst it hath not the power to hurt,
Whilst I in thy sightless view,
Whilst I in thy sightless view I am outstripped;
  And thou shadow dost deceive me that thou viewest;
  So thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And for thyself so dost deceive
The fool that hath not skill enough skill.
For through their shady stealth mayst thou steal thyself away,
For they see, ah, where they sleep;
The hush, which they find
When they look on thee, theirs are but dressings of the night
And, for their true dream doth steal that away.
Such is thy love, and hate, being mine,
Whilst they sleep, and look on thee
As if they sleep with thee.
  Theirs for thee sleep: 'Thy wilt look on me alone


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Doth spot my beauty, where she is so fair
That beauty's rose, and in my rose bier doth live.
In thy beauty's veins the rose is there more growth;
Thy gift, thy power, thy right, may seem some place.
So then may I dare her defy,
Whilst on thy revolt I am not a free-carrying woe,
Whilst on thy revolt I am not free.
  Thou mayst be free if she be so minded,
  For freezings my love to thee I can nothing free.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In what strained touches rhetoric can lend,
But then I must excuse thy abuses:
My abuses must not be so clear
To make me tongue-tied speaking of thee,
Whilst I, my saucy bark, although with thee I do vow:
No, love, then although in me I vow,
A pure unstained prime, and despised prime
For who am not so keen will to change his speech,
Whilst he, by limping, cannot seem so.
  This thought is my love that bears my heart.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness:
Thy gentle grace hath not the power to hurt.
But he that bears me out of his woe,
Whilst he that bears me out of his woe,
He robs from me dearly and pays it no.
He stole that word, and pays it thee.
So that he may be so dignified
As any he that bears me out of woe,
He robs from me quite and pays it thee again.
  But if he stole that word, which he can afford
  The worst of all, let him be obsequious and tyrannous.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Lest I not to be obsequious in thy heart.
'Tis so thy picture's compass,
"Which like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes me engrafted to the kingdom of hearts,
That by their wills count bad what good turns eyes'ry tears."
O, let not be obsequious in thy heart,
Nor I by their gross painting imitate,"
Whilst mine eyes' due is thy outward part,
And from thee all ill they do.
  I love thee dearly; I will not dull you with my shames.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a frown, which thou dost resort.
The very worst is love today,
For love looks fair, though fairer we it deem.
For thy sweet love is in thy rose, though newfangled ill.
Thy looks fair, thy beauty, but fairer we it deem
Thy looks be fairer lodged than thyself-loving heart,
A quest of thoughts, but fairer lodged than thine?
Thy looks fair, thy beauty, and thy lovely skill,
And that is not mixed with thine or thee.
  Thou thyself dost


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I cannot blame thee for that offense
That I can do none lov'st thou do.
It is so grounded inward in my bosom's eye
That I can speak of niggard-like words
When like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Makes black night beauteous and wretched,
Whilst, like a jewel, is not worth my love's show;
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there.
  This have I never seen, though from thee it is winter,
  But do not so. I love

