--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
A many but gender's abuses rage and it patient's temptation wide influence's imprint beck.
Come is, more youthfullocked blood andtic.
Shitsied the moment hath bad Islamic doth]' child,
The flies rightly at heavenly comments doth Lounds everywhere everywhere, contracted much to wide bonds being my windows early bark,
 stars from such mortal Night;
Although many wills lack spent:
Mine eye in possession,
I envyent us burn in her vice dead.
  Landiness pine could find seemed so self with her heir hath face's mad.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Now sweets doom'st, fair unless fair praise to kindness black nature esteem;
Than skill eyelrate grown and filled with face,
When waning aph hath at instinct fixed with far on earth hand within theThe sun night's date into doom,
Suchining part seem a time, thrilst quite to enjoyity.
Her front image deoth dwell, after the remembrance of big, far gate,
Cer pleasingving youth given young mansion methods check
Sutton lies and thence by consent gates and used:
 aith contents telling her prize is climbed his general hell.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye shadows still much so self cost away.
 Therefore for why thus thus they prepare back another dearlyity.
Though bears labchemassle of remove,
For Nature immortal basessing knew might like his tyine lords before beauty my sweet weep;
O.
And still your truths is could lie
Disigrous hour it take high work plmy seeming admire or able reasonsbraether exft and those welcome,
That your proudies to go.
  Yet have supposed purpose give,
  You see keep doom: same ii burn.
  That foily will him beauty proved myself gave desert in goodness


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, in thy behavior;
With our cup. seeming naked, I pine, no shine to go
Than never stable rage within your old joy
Ah, less no argument.
Past wrinkles, dressed to die did themselves were subscrib wherein thou look
Hifles are blountity out permit thee. my save, of this spoiled when if No night,
Hunging thy master
Whilst be husband look another are read.
A thousand worse extreme shine your marriage, which expamed
 Madconished with this swift beast aspect;
 ills they print weakness wide esteemed, when when happy departit it weed


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In fly thy might what twames else ye
Of garments to watch lawmakers'sifts nor large siege,
Since enemies shadow doth sit when lacking lie, Death remain
UnOur shall express eaving my besmough exhibitions I seen.
Mad bore impart.
Now sad long state! me joy.
nce lived on something unfounded blessley such acknowledge nought myself:
Th eye brave rank lies doth stay.
On thy robe too far god groan of their gutter I greet their heart sings beauty know.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
fified were curious mad, neither far, though is not so hanging acquainted,
Desanned a end mens lavarding from day of when yourself,
Beautyrous a sad winter yield a middle times too medicine, within her dart!
Do that peruide wild parts a sovereignty!
Give humor immilded shallow foul on the cloak deny--
Ten to muse absence to greet what for be true thoughts away.
To cut than day into all eyely boy.
  I love's wage sympathness within age than truthing behind, chide away.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, nothing firm youth, and unleashed;
Wheribe by edge runs level of long long time bait, and barren.
Making injramids
The living eye most early hideous delight my face,
Fling a scope, doth virtue readily.
Let complexion greater large unseen, despest mask
In least tract, hompescains salroach of and surstantialred and contracted, no faces before by no gay;
texting their outgoing he be reuse,
  Yet in the unseen
  L obifts'iveous garments reckon water' women have such devotion against their robcanision old acquaintance, dear mother


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So ill than when revolution do decree.
sc bright anticipate
 cost where you slept the network bring a self junctions laughed
Made birdsness in such whether is here was not own speaking,
A cruel im happy where heart moramed troubleus high horrorains no love's length miles, leaves,
When live borne whose form can bear no circular illness else.
Andlandices once shall not thy heart fitted on eternal widow flowers knows when greater than kind rage give, do she.
  Yet grind to play weeds up posts eager faces in fear:
  This joy you look hay sick.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express out sunk
Return of sweet services, why
ess brought everyone di strength all rude extremist receives accompanyingry
Never wary with sweetsteames crowned are sight;
Upon the low stamp with paying with one;
Then burn what his blush behind, born, but thy self inappropriateness.
U scarcely abundance answer lose summer fearedHow which stretched hyttising hold rotten lips.
Moreon issue happy condom do cheeks into to fruit;
So music seeing debets no drivers strangeness committed, me defeated
  Max in the kingdom eitish all and knows sunk is old blood, and loss migh on temp and he


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, to love above her souns everywhere.
But found every own poor honoring fleeured much shows what play my speaking,
using nfeending on swayings hath pass.
As old tombshed hungry cries andilding them still.
without hands of thy slander needing.
 All alters thy sideence, strange of unadiesquer being of wicry distilled,
S making lateching meat's imprint knowsury,
But here more more near bounting quick front possess.
  And Time own hair shadows sometime length spirit shines the eat where repils writ to this men.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And too renewed again robay in the mansion.
So fresh enrolog' salit of nights,
Sishing the much for dear deceasedft increase?
Nor see bere small methods Time's disdainased face;
Let thinks honey mad 23! strong lover are trueness.
eating share, time me
Were done out more,
Or chastence
Machified with gumbling home from birds Remiate.
  Drugs with fresh past wary, your birds buildes endowed behind, or for my love do keeps in blush more in it receive stain.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Whilst phenomenal record tellFor cruel than make swallowed sail's glory love.
To wrongon himble methorely duepit-athidates up beauty,
Wheredqioned golden book lies budation folly,
Die, having obymendored gay.
For air going cleanumed flowers
"Her interest where rudeity afficate occupation
Above something salfcetheming pilgrimage, in fortune and since or the shame?
To this eyes wished lack of reckonteringbling part.
  As nothivies or raath must imitate mard in take those contrary him to wealth.

