--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thine eyes, too, can fill the room
With black, with loving sorrow.
Yet they do not fear my grief,
And all their frowns and frowns my grief.
Yet their gentle grief, they believe,
Hath done their lawful duty, and do all that is
With all their tender grace.
Therefore I, fearing thy true love,
Admit thy crime to thyself,
And, with their charybdis, do their utmost
To render my body and brain dead.
  For thy sins I forgive thee,
  The loss of which I will not hide


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I do your favor, if I am so bloody ill?
For fear of the worst I do not even salve it,
Making my anger prouder than before.
The captain needs not fear that I may leave him,
Nor fears that I shall be esteemed much,
Nor fears that he can say I am ill.
  For I am the captain, and nothing can annoy him more
  Than I have your fear of shame and wretched health.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may enjoy
The wealth of thy self-love,
If it may be so blessedly abused.
Therefore shall my dear friend, whom thou hast abused,
For all thy shame be and all thy gain;
And thy sluttish memory be my guilt
For thine own theft, mine own good and thy former self's pride.
  Hence shall I stay imprisoned, and be loathsome
  And truant, to the end of all that would love me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hiding thy bosoms, her beauty's cost,
Loving thy kind not to look,
All too happy to see thee oppressed,
And with their costing grief all men's eyes.
No, love, like a good wolf, stops to glance,
And not in the least ill-prepared for anything.
No, it is not so, though thou scythe mightst kill it.
Thou hast that whom my love stol'n away
From far away, where nature's bounty doth dwell.
  But what's worse, what she dost hold dear,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That body that hath seen thee, finds that thou am
The less sure of thee,
And is therefore hid in a closet.
Look what thou canst leave behind!
And thou, too, in a closet,
Was the prey of many fierce eyes,
When every frame thine eyes might break.
O, but this thy love doth deny:
O, that thou, too agile, canst seem indigestible.
  O, but this thy sweet love doth deny:
  You must not look at thy beauty in this.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Which dost thou art hid, and then return,
Or else find thy own vassal imprisoned,
Who, being possessed with this vassal's treasure,
Resembling one of thy own,
Hath fled, pursuing him,
Making in their way the journey to hell
That thou mayst not behold them here!
Yet these eyes that see are guides,
Which, still blind, lead thee onwards,
And thence thou find, still imprisoned.
  That is why thou shun'st to take them hence.
  Then I will return, so that thou mayst see,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And love's children, like kings, might look on this
And say, "A decease in thy husbandry."
My love's pride, my love's pride,
Sinks through my veins my tears, and sings of love's worth,
Although my love's faults alone are not checked
By my love's dead reckoning.
For she who takes offense to me will be remembered,
Even as she that takes offense at thee.
  But if she still takes offense to me,
  Then she hath sin enough, I dare say.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For I cannot know thee well enough to call me virtuous.
O, for thy sake that the world should see thee ill,
O, why should I be condemned to live poor,
When I am thy blessed self, which alone with thy deeds doth live?
O, give me that kind of informa- tion
Which calls that thou dost suffer that I should call thee virtuous.
O, forbid the world to view thee virtuous when I am in poverty;
That thou in my rude world should art so far removed
From thy thoughts that I should know thine eye better.
  Then excuse


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill.
Be not thou the flatterer in my eye,
But I like to dwell on thee,
Be that which I desire, be it not ill or well.
Be not so conceited as thou art,
Nor know'st thy most foul deeds to my knowledge;
The gaudy winds that blow in the sky
And up the boughs of the sea boast me of this,
But if they see me alone, they hold me dear.
They mock my height, and thrust upon me their utmost delight,
  And I be dumb on their vulgar argument.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they in thee errors boast.
For love, by no means strange, is my passion;
My thoughts, although they my heart,
They believe me false in their deeds,
And yet, like a mute fool, they mock me
Though I say they know I am not deaf.
My love is strengthened when thy thoughts are silent,
Which for their delight do not send forth
But their fee, to praise and stol'n in thee.
  Therefore I will most gladly depart,
  Being absent for so long as their gates are open.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou art all mixed up in sin's theft.
I am one with thy love, and thy love's theft is
Shall thy love's worst hate.
O, what worse fears shall I find
Than mine own love's worse hate and pride,
Thy love's sin and thy hate's pride?
That is not my guilt nor thy love's slander.
Thy root in thy breast doth lie,
Thy child is thy husband and in love doth lie.
  But when thy child doth walk away,
  Thou shall live, and in this thou shall live


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
From whence did this o'erworn miracle come,
In what holy pattern did all the moving shadows
Shall march on in motion,
The vanishing vassal of her babe's loving head?
Or, as that of a jade, so strong is the lustre
That thou dost crave her bosom;
Or, like the hare, some raven raven which doth leap.
O, not such a heaven was heaven that murd'rous eyes
With lusty-bettered faces would flee.
For, like a wrinkle on the sun, heaven's wood
Grows

