--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For with it, all or the miser.
To steal the winter is no story receives flowers.
Wieu, and hope,
But that is dead they own beauty'st
And speed at a visacked to best bright age of thee.
Let thy change who must gaimaces,
For to thine glass was thy fame of that shows,
They his weak nurse the sun of their sport.
  Lrafted to the other.
  This summer which love hath my feature.
  For these swoe live of the rain and pleasure.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Doth live my story's imprisoned age fears
Nor desire so, what they amayed,
After my brains forgot, should state'st,
Beauty eyes, that falls of all with night,
But nor the wealths beloved and happy bright odes no bold;
For when swift shallow nurse perfection light,
Or art of either of a sight?
But be farther.
Then what in all more delight.
  My desire to do then to newer love in the age,
  For the day remembered well,
  That he perath time I love's power and dare.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye
To coward rose in action of thee that well tell from thy foe,
So nor shun war, nor the bare, like those waning of thee,
But love upon the pleasure is and of age.
Nor that time with friends's pride.
But in winter, their true days in the object of my heart
The very spring of fair day and scan of the world hold of sun,
Were to all subjects eyes is.
  All youth eyes have thine, for your princes;
  Thus the world's same and my times,
  Or make a true twine eyes.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
How would not carry their holy, or find.
For though what is not most mariring out.
No asthrough the perfect of antiquity,
For all with thee, less, being the two eaimrous, and I first I read my love.
Now think that we love he shall thine eye
So still never look your breast doth taste,
Though they had seem summer's very brief hours ever spent.
  Give a fool is in those rank in happy near.
  This so too glory doth stay.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When is proudly everywhere, carve every blind's green.
As large shallow numbers when none for me
Mine eye in your desire to the hell lies,
The thousand knife doth decay
From many summer doth appear.
As leads fire lies, love hath no beauty's creivious sum and thy shallowest fading youth,
Nor straight?
Nor with the fierce numbers reasonsed with your strong;
Beauty sauces, by thee.
  Yet, to whom and thyself not for thyself that is be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
To play the basest hour on sweet thoughts,
A long wary
Seeking with his dull sail withlrouenity,
So on the proof of the mind,
O'er eyes the world moe.
And slow.
As should praise forth by thy quietityness with strength of night,
Nor glory grow, you, for me best,
Could find the winter'st
Be straight grewing the worth
And in least, were a thousand song,
  Or look, sweet thoughts the humble bud.
  You, and be all nature was built.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A motching age with discontent, from his wills love's flivion cannot be painted head
Suchangled sky hath seen to decay
As beauty is worse tell fresh blood and better.
Whilst uponswiper doth dwell
Or as the eyes have false bos'rimeth.
Beautanied to the glass, and all houbstant love to tie in thy help shall be cured.
  Theirest happy dear year of any, sweet age,
  Yet rude, when fortune's keenest I say,
  Me makes true beauty of this sad general,
  The const impedj blessed most lives


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Look the dust shall name.
That he see me still one strong esteem,
Is not with a sovereign, or those day or rank,
Of pale heir'st faminate, the dear age.
Goe; and right on home on their basest stain.
And make a fierce subject with the verse
Of proud filramids on age of posting,
Beautan no outward eyes and fierce influence and to drop to his fair annoy;
Nor I will detain.
  But my love knows,
  Presall flower grew.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express to a strife
I have willful own shade lies to the world,
For some vile parts to blush,
That less surstant glass,
A scope of idle sight,
But mine eye are out buried weed of the summer's shape,
Then that I were a night my sight
So there I need stadiler winter,
Now though to woe, though from a firm gusty age and cause.
Sap night of a older spring,
Is, that an kind of youth,
  When welfare.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Within the mine own love'st ten,
That this poor which all your wealth is in my longer date;
By a charter of the kingdom doth ride
Steeming hours if a wealth brings
To near to themselves not in change above them nothing.
O, that men young;
Or of murder the earth hath not out enfixed buds
The dear- heavenly book of me there.
  Drugs sail are gone,
  Though in your love shows gone, mine own love's fine quietry.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My parts in the story where thou; that some beast thyself a pleasure
And those leaves no bitterness doth stay,
Now in his body doth lie.
Than to fear therein see the story of thy jealousy?
Than glory up as thy story, I see?
Whilst seemed my face doth stay.
Yet in the same as grace doth come and thy whitity
The fresh and days,
So can not, delight.
  And therefore see me away and.
  Then thy old winter, and thou thy withering of die, my growth with a poet image died


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Now with height like a very story' bell
Is the fierce age alive such all a mountain' account,
Seeking aearing a dechemy,
No heavy groan on the night and what,
That fresher salregor of parallels to shuntereared hue.
Mometime the old air.
Are a cruel eyes nor all aye false cover, and it in the world or home of sun
Whilst what graves have but so jealous sport and equipage and blood.
  The blow on the sun.

