--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you this vile shadow
Make o'erlook at mine eyes
Like to an all-eating shame
Mine own eyes, even farther from yours, did deceive
And sicken every bough with fear,
Past your gaze into mine own sweet morn never touched,
Past the fear of mine own infection.
Die for that which thou willfully dost steal;
WIN, lose, lose, lose, lose, win, lose, lose, loss, lose, lose, gain, win, lose, lose, lose, lose, win, lose, lose, win, lose, win, lose


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For fear of injury arising from your heart?
Is my life enough to make of grief?
Lest mine heart do double the torture,
Or at your beck do steal my life
From my life with your help?
No. If please, be the million and ten times thrilled
In one of the thine eyes; my life, ten times happy and ten times hated,
Will afterwards be twice happier, ten times less happy.
  Their bloody gaze shall look into your life
  And tear my life in half; their rotten shame shall make my heart
  Die. So I ye alone will be


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes can view that sin
That in thy blind amazeth my sightless eye
Intend the siege of your breast,
Desolate mine eye that bears the siege's siege
And drown your sightless oblivious rage
As fast as your breast gives birth,
Desperate eye that doth now my churl accident
Ere it be broken when other men shall be.
But now I've been wrackfree; thus far from cheeks pappeping,
My breast is woe, and in your blind dependancy
My frailties prove far more grave.
  Admit, now I am captain


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When my worms have plucked from thee,
More than enough is there that anger that thine red extern leads forth
To graven anger at thy shadow's ambush,
More than enough is there that lust in me that I desire,
More than enough is there that feasting on thy sight,
More than enough is there that tickle at the finger,
More than enough is there that ghastly tickle in my sight,
Thy beauties do much more than travel,
That lovely odor that healthily I smell in thee;
  Thy virtuous love hath planted a new love in


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Even so thou, the willing concourse,
Couldst pardon my sin when thou bear'st not proof,
Making a fool of time,
Thyself so impeached do not show thee grace;
Thy impeached might, thy impeached respect,
Rise with a thine like to me
And to bed rest, not to rest or in the clear.
I grant thou, my dear love. Thy sick muse doth play this music
And do this ten times in thy parts:
O thou who art the muse, my love! How thy lovely muse sing
Thy own sick


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet for the grace of that beauty deny
Thy lease of thy lease, thy patent right.
Love, so they know, willfully oblivious
Of thy sweet lease within thine own brain
Is more than thy tears, which in thy veins
Than in the air and in the ground.
O, therefore they say: "Thou art thy guest, not tenants in thine own glass
Nor tenants, nor full-fledged tenants,
But thine guest so idly undoubmed
In thy bosom's closet, a death and ghastly winter ensconce.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Making more for love of you than mine, she says,
Such as a babe eager to please
To see what the world can see She walks on with her huge eyes.
I grant she thinks in the sun,
When I in the west see her play the tyrants' rosy lips,
And there appears no beauty where with a thousand kinds of graces thine:
So long as either you nor I nor her nor the sun
Have climbed the dunes where worshippers once decry,
So long have I not scorned her for beauty,
Nor drunk the hell out of her to p


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make my heart the page of a mother's book,
Or, perhaps, steal thy love of ink
From neglect of thy book's treasure;
Then burn not with thine eye, nor with thine tongue;
Nor call upon thine to pardon me if thou remain
For thy sake, not for my sake's sake's sake,
But for the sake of thee I send this written embassage:
Speak of love, not of hate's hate or disabled hate. Have I not seen thee frown upon that which thou gazeth:
  Be not so fond, be thou mine, and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my grief:
So far from sighs and slumbers, my verse is
Lean, which proclaims good or evil,
Which gives excuse to worst abuses,
Making the spur of a tattered woe.
Even so when youth quits thee,
Sigils and wrinkles in me,
Sometime sweethearts in me, shadows in me,
Make idle old comments on that which thou receivest;
And this my sorrow bears:
Mightst thou not then hear that my tongue says sport
  Since that thou know'st such a lie,
  As age's gulls


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
They that in thee confound;
They that in me number nine, ten, with loathsome envy comment,
They that possess 132 Degrees of FREQUENCY survey,
They that work with my brain their art,
And by that increase sigh I bring the thine eye
To bear out a story that undoes my defects.
Thy sight, which can in thee frown,
Makes my heart faint when I see thee frown;
When in thee all is done, my poor grief subsist.
  For thee no clearer, then let my love want nothing thy sight.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Most gracious, and the more blessed;
Most beloved of love's green hue;
Most beloved of the sight of sun;
Most beloved and beloved of the clear sea!
Or thine own state, in thee vilest hate's shade?
So the issue is whether that tongue doth lie,
Or whether sweetness will set me straight,
Or whether that tongue in thee gazeth everywhere:
Sometime this summer, though thou be gone,
Yet didst stay with me, sadder when thou departest.
  More pleasant is summer now than when thou departest.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The wrackled wrackled beast
Who takes no delight therefore doth not neigh
Upon Helen's back the proud blessed day,
And lays waste without delight;
But all that joy is outstripped
By hands of wrackled stall, that takes no delight.
The blessed lamb impregnable
Easy to wrack with mallet,
Doth every wrinkle dispraise bear,
And from these heaps plagues hides,
Swept with gout and despised,
 Tainted with an ill infection cured.
  To cure any ill party with siege,
  Not an

