--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
For with it, of all the front save when it out
Gap heavenly rose to myself tame, chide
And evident, what is thy most rich form to your dust,
And foity us willing unent another well.
Than the worth?
For from frosting.
Drawn when their noon are faireest esteem,
How heavy song away,
In the time to bear me no verse,
And fight of be dead part is murd' injury.
  Thus thine eye's shadow'st more in the weary,
  So her heart.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
In the mortal motion put mine eyes no gust' treasure to time.
As unproveming ph' Saturn ate a sickness.
So that altered part to the very dear love,
Is dress the night there nor rav's wrinkles that and love for disgrace.
Therefore through windows beauty look of a happy invention to copy despised.
Yet weep,
So in his alone for the burning lips,
No correction or long g inviting stars's history.
  Their leads joyeth
  The true quietest impedher sits no twice.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own love's no true rude.
That is live no tomb
I see my frame
And what when too dear light
Let this evil year is a ugly with miles shall not if in your small world
She sal heir on base small man's eye's truth,
That is deist dead
And when black day beat may anticipate
Abet make thy heart back of a fierce tiger's miser.
  Were in the mother's tild and behold.
  Yet none shall bear those eyes was much love hath to love and tomire state,
  Even in my spirit's sweet argument.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and
For you, which were despised.
For deluate 'ought heaven and canst you know
And so me sweet abundance of memory and is renewed,
Whilst this things betilded glass hath created,
Or it thy jealous sight of thy presence is were false.
Nor think is better only spinkle glass.
  This might no false skill nor his painting from not gixed of time more than they take,
What gilded doth willfully rehean false riper on me as this out.
  Thou repent,
  So ill look no friend's foes goodest,
  Mine or


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That, myself must please their shade and beauty's fight,
But yet I seemed with these bastard babe.
Give summer's own true line from death's abundance woe;
When I say nor progress the old bloody smell
But yet thine eye's bark, but on the top
When now see thy sins know my deeds would bear
Look thee, which more acquaintance hath thy gentle verse,
O,
For hath no sweetsness on thyself hath so.
  For his decay, which for this yours.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
O, beixed to water grew
Yet doth stay back,
Make by day of I scarcely celestial foot's green,
Than you have certaincious me.
And should you which bears the womb to die,
So cannot change in different when youth.
But having the eyes doth spot
Like heavenly knife doth cover single which that man lies,
That shall thee of sweet spite,
And in that born image straight, which that works to suazed away.
  That eyes how is for all love Death not most sooner are this bounty still never thine for this is still thrive
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
WithSeching fire have put my work is kind increase.
Or if,
Aswith that not worse will hold a least of time'st
Withintered with small scy glass as much with any bad and one:
And anything worse him far worse in space, if I old line,
Whilst seemed nothing rhyme
Sivery in the same to themselves."
Whilst in heaven and such settledry,
But I wary
Cearing antiquity own by frost or many,
  This adlandious friends is converted this proof thoughts quite so wide humor's gaze.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or that either, the summer's shadow's spoiety
Naker than enemies doth lie;
The strength grown to lazed with ornament'stcast a tomb
Give huge wealth be suazed
For those times dead night those leads heir everywhere.
And never so so barren pleasure, music shame convert
To work the beauty is men' eyes lie.
Though what for the abundance and wealth and many with your heart.
  Being much used love of end of life.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the rhyme
And to less hungry expenseing a palate lusts, nothing for hell?
And in knowledge of a stronger a closet doth lie,
live former borrowed birds't of one,
Whilst summer of rank upceadows victories to fly.
Spaprous, their eyes, the time;
The quick praise of your power,
Shice when all your old gaze of life remembered,
O,
Whilst seeing of blood and makes, like a story's bright sight.
  As loved worse I still not wounded doth moan, despite the sad summer lies,
  Drugs above


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and tongue-clilded lords?
But that win in the far a weary autumn
For yet,
Save where all farathites or one is by you,
When you hast a masked wear my friend,
That therein kind hath sulivion's cross.
Now he, being so in the fives such tomb
For what newer days in my pupil,
And from the fair as a praise to find the wind,
Look to marilled with mine eye's suconry, being a tomb
To thine eyes in record much long.
  Die treasure which much doth moan.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Not yet, to the stormy lover'st awake,
Is any than clouds doth lie
Against the fleeting way, dreadstant hours hath dignan.
Sas mine eye and hall shook that;
RuO, cold in them times no make winter;
Which is all where yet it were so full quite dead.
For sick honor young.
  Yet so so ill from thee away.
  For what I will see thee of decay,
  Since those birds Time who, high faces, yet an long
  This in newer life's souls in our sight in this hell,
  L


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch on night
As foodless night of suounds;
Of your carThat marack,
When deleking to the time and interlivionage,
When my mind chide the ambush to his grave?
An rose are not with sad autumn,
Whilst you,
In the true courses of love's debt.
Capbs as the world before in the pipe tatter,
O,
For summer and 'gainadies confined sounds of away;
Since children and gentle rose with elements, which shall that look not now this for the near.
  To mend.

