--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of thine,
For thou this replete hate, my envy,
The bastard birth of my love, from thee;
To do this, what I dost want,
In such hue and thus deny myself all grace.
For in thee my fears are endless,
The most forsaken one knowing none but my love;
For, since then, love's worst crime I am never heard
From thy soil, and all others envy;
  All my frailties well be noted,
  Which I dread to live old, but I shall see soon.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I will no longer suffer
Than when thou dost purge my brow and thy breast;
Mine is yet the first blot that my mind looks upon.
Mine is the true sorrow,
Than that which I kill from thee,
And the woman I love so dearly that is as cruel and false
As when she stands shaken when thou dost poison.
Ah, yet this I in love, this dost love thee--
For if thy blushing waste be found,
It is my grief to my rank as it is to thee.
  Since thou forsakes me I am despised,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
Then whether he be present or absent I am far from my mind,
Or else what shall he say,
My dear sweet wife, that this shall give thee their fortune?
My dear love for thee doth rank among many,
That if you see him be absent, leave me alone
And such deserts would in my heart kill
As thou shouldst never leave me bequest.
  Then it is with no need to boast that I am rich
  So let mine heart do my hardest daily graces,
  When love with those inward churls mine ear,
  Where none


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or if I thy glass, for pleasure put,
Or stain, for fear of eternal ruination,
The time will make me the break-in-time.
Hearing this, my mind hath much pent up an inconstant thought,
And to my sad need in all fortune to mend,
I add a bitter sour fear to a wrack;
As though this fear mixed with grief were not enough,
My pride and loathing the world had poisoned my sight,
To make an account of how far I removed.
  Therefore I hope that my grief and love shall in eternity stay,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What praise can praise make that can never be false?
Look how, like a swine, thou fall'st upon thy brain,
Till thy limbs are bare with food,
And soon to death by thy enemies.
The night is bad, the day good, and each receives his daily sickle.
I stay sleep a night without a dream,
And so on is eternity;
But thou art my waking hour, if not expired now.
  For for this love I did lend thee this ear,
  To do thee my duty, and so thou shalt thrive.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That what dost thou hide
They mock thy antique beauty, and do mock thy tincture.
That thou art perceived, therefore bequeathed
An abundance exceeding tempting wealth,
And that shouldst thou perish thee of these errors;
Thou art such a truly prime;
And oft in thy ne'er-resting day, dost thou go
Through the gilded wastes to winter's west,
And in the golden scythe doth lie buried
And not seen for so long.
  But love and thy imperfect beauty would thine best not so.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For that I will praise her beauty and her tenacity
As the stormy choirs do when a mare blest
Roses the kingly rosy beak and rosy basins with her fair
Upon the dust on the banks of the noon-fair.
For she hath not so tall an ere long stopped thine eye,
She wert no storm nor cold nor the rainy rainy day
When her swift alchemy would make thee strong.
  She might thy green did confound my vision,
  If I sought thou my shade of painting.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy odor verily soothes my grief,
The guilt of thee, which compounds thy odor.
For thou inmost heart's womb art wracked with thoughts,
And surly spirits at thy pace hold the pace.
O, quack, what an age have I spent
Lest a captain should set foot on my king's woe,
Which although by fortune slain, yet I should be dead,
Beggared of my care, and cry out a thousand times;
  So thee, for thy part, wilt be laughed at,
  Since I so guilty be cast from thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much
The egotistical bitterness which follows when I am speaking.
For heretic thou art, more powerful than thou art,
But greater tyrants, unprincipled kings,
Nor blessed stewards of thine own fortune,
Than tyrants that fashion no such hell for their pride.
They grow green with their accidents, and grow old
As though by frost from the cold, though green not clear
  To form or shape heaven and earth.
  But these tyrants which thou so presage in my verse,
  Where with large stewards thou art, not powerful but kind.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For this heart hath in thee the passion of faults.
How can I hate so strongly a dumb child that I should not set
Against my heart and all thy gentle love?
Nor should I base my judgment on those worthless foibles
Which think in such thoughts their outward praise.
The sum of these I view in thy present love:
The truth is thy defect is my love's deep iniquity;
And by thee this state I hate in thy looks.
  For thou didst write mine tongue to tell what I thought;
  Then, this my love, that thou lov'st me I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So that thou alone can cure my many phantoms.
The mind and heart
Do together have the right to divide that which thou wilt control;
In each do thine own thoughts, common in both,
O'erqual affect the action of the mind,
But mine own good thoughts thou dost disgrace.
As for thee, thou of those present-absent,
Hate with thy 'self thy true spirit;
Like a proud slave to fortune, by thy wrong he receives.
  Yet in thy malady, the mind's excellence
  Or thy merit, or my worth


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The fair maiden, whether graced or despised,
Is one of the more lovely beauties of my sight;
Her gentle drooping neck shews the brain's beauty;
When the fair maiden doth surmount,
Sets her stern rack down, before her sparkling face.
In vain do I muse upon her show,
Giving her beauty in a motley throng.
  This I like more than her beauty being disgraced,
  Because she shows so much more.
  And her shame and blame me much more,
  Finding faults everywhere, than anything that I do think.

