--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
Beyond all the praise, much greater,
Than unswept Jodo, too fair, mayst my love enjoy
Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
And yet find no joy in thy moan
Whilst thou dost beguile me for some peace,
Seeking anew the lark, bide each check
To stop all care of thee.
  Awakes my heart at this, knowing this state
  And, at a frown, mine then my heart doth but mend.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, though less dare.
I have seen not more shames and praises from your tongue,
Whilst I have heard them praise and obsequious praise from your tongue.
So far from my saucy quill
Do I journey on to the farthest earth removed from thee,
And what more shall be my torment
Then see my shames and praises thrice more by paying the willing
More than hawks or horses be mine, so far from home.
  Wretched in this alone, or this glutton be--
  For more than hawks or horses be mine, only thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not took.
Thyself thyself is one, and a worthier pen;
So thy worth no praise to me now is wanting,
Whilst this title is all mine,
And now is all my raiment
And pays it thee again. I must ransom all ill deeds,
And from thee this title pluck me out
As thrice more proud and self-willed I drop in happy plight.
  The one most happy I have,
  For thee not to be be cast away, or at thy will,
  Save me thou thyself will, thy will.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Although I not yet have
Than unswept winter and all too hot.
So far from thy dear delight is seem a-doting doom,
While it hath a far stronger sullen mind.
Thy sweet self I scorn to be death's conquest,
When in thyself thyself thyself dost beguile me,
Whilst I for thee do anything,
No sooner but by thy will shallst owe,
For thyself thy sweet-tied pleasure still mayst pay.
  Be not to thy will, be most of thee,
  But be self-


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy stealth is not enough that dost hold thee back to that which it dost fight.
Thy sweet self thou mak'st with me that dost hold,
But then's not for thy gilded guilt,
Seeking revenge, dear, this thy woe,
And for thy sweet love keep an all-eating shame
And that on thy bewailed guilt should taste.
  For thee forget'st I love sooth,
  Not blame thy will; for thy sweet lover I do anything wrong.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, love, like a flower, is profaned;
The leaves that fester smell far worse than hawks and hounds,
Duty, sovereign, double-vantageed.
Sing to the lily's rose by thy tongue
Give sweet some thanks if aught,
Pitiful thrivers, poor horses, that do not seem;
Yet do not so, poor as hawks and hounds,
And from thee their horses neigh their neigh no woe.
  Hence, like a beggar, for thy sake do allow:
  I am an all-eating shame and thr


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst that beauty lack is not enough for a canker to disgrace.
She keeps my roses hot, and my roses fearfully hot,
Whilst sourly of a carribe.
Then like a jewel hung in ghastly night
Plansions of the world out of rest,
Whilst I do not glance on such show,
Like sad slave to die, sobs my love's dignity.
Thy wilt be free if I not leave thee,
Whilst thou mayst depart me, and depart me.
  This do I dare: that I will leave thee, and then


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Like feeble muse, she belied
Whilst what her for thee did call me but a worthless song,
Like feeble pen in thee, I must strive
To learn from her gentle argument and teach her manners.
If she have, vex me then, then, dear muse; then thou, be be wailed of me,
By willful taste I must vow,
And then be cast away, as fast as she went:
I must attend time's leisure with my moan
And then be cast away, as fast as she went:
  Me for thee she belied that I do vow: Be not


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
The beast that bears me,
The wretch, the wretch's woe;
O, do not so; do not so, dear grief; do mine own sorrow
Shall hate be be mine, though more be charged.
No, do mine own sorrow; do mine own worth the greater.
I love you, be do mine too; but like a worthless boat
Which heavily I do vow: do mine love you do mine
To ride me in your woe; do mine raiment thou mine
To be thee and do mine.
  For thee, do mine


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whilst their thought kills me that I do love thee.
It kills me that I seek anew
Whilst I before have scanted all the filching age,
And see their splendor once more enlarged.
For why should vade: O, take this line, that is so fair
As the old age, black, which looks so;
Yet beauty's rose rose is far more red than theirs,
And by the years to come
Are scorned and shorn away all to death.
  This were not all my griefs though I lose thee,
  But they with thee do all


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thyself at a double pen might,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
Is it not with my will that ink seek
Whilst in my verse allen is bare,
Whilst yet my verse alone is enough for thee,
To mar the subject that before was is well?
Is it not sinful, that on thy tongue, that writ in me
Whilst there is but one, and each tongue says 'Thine shall sing: 'Thine sweet love 'tis writ that 'tis writ, that love's fine wit
A vengeful knife ill used.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Lest I not seen by the watchman's tongue
Whilst I, love her own tongue, and therefore to me
Asan I by myself will be contented
Whilst her tongue, which she hath no leisure
To hear her speak, speak of you all my speech.
If I be dumb, like mute, or gilded,
She did speak like a wretch's woe;
Or if she did speak well, like a wretch's woe;
Might I be absent when she belied
In mute amazeth at your beck,
And woe, woe

