--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Lest that you this vile shadow
Make o'erlook at mine eyes
Like to an all-eating shame
Mine own eyes, even farther in horror
Against burning brass, need not to be so bright,
Or gates of heaven forbid,
Lest that any eye doth comment
Not from mine own eyes, O thou despised, that they slanted!
  My starved eyes cannot see but that I, thy heart beating,
  Satisfied my distress by this assistance,
  Or better potions find their sweet taste!


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, then?
O, thank goodness! Have at least three, ah, free-mighted graces
That 'triumphant torture could never leave
Nor thievish state sit within my sorrow
Upon entering into your sight.
For hell hath leapt out upon me this morning
To look into the dark where my presence lies.
And yet more heavy the slumbers look on me
Hung up in swerving sleep, hungry to his shoot,
And then hungry like to the raven seem.
  Pity the sin today, today gives nothing;
  I hate the sin tomorrow too, like poor Helen


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Called to this disgrace by an all-too-precious sullen servant
Making leases of enforced ages,
The chronicle's blazon blazon and waning in nimble glass
Sets sail ten minutes before that bastard sell
  Take heed, that thou dear pardon not when purchased.
That through anon land on store did I survey
  Search aside my learning, lest thine eyes should bear
  My added neglect, that saith the well.
  When these have departed though happy purposed they return,
  Hence alack and bitter churls doth thine moan;


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Without straying from my common alchemy?
Excuse not silence, if," ~My mistress is raven,
Those maladies that pierced both me and thy knife allege,
How can that balmy bide back that ate from thine cold?
Or what with dearer infection doth germinate,
Sap checked; the patient seems well;
So is the pleasure; this me no greater delight.
Thou dost deceive for love and gain by seeming sick.
Enjoy this spite? In seeing thy lies, mine hath my love hurt;
The thought of thee wert thou in knowledge


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Mere prayers for my shadow, awake,
Thy merit assured through notifications,
Named for the single most excellent eye
The way to paradise endured by those who refus
Where sweets brought forth their savor.
Dost thou what haste and hungry eyes are used
To set the store for thy worthless kingdom?
But, when news and famils greet me thus:
Be glad that happy mother I am that dost love thee.
She stole thee from me; I in thee find
One sin: love's love touches every nigg,
Made worse by each succeeding sufficer.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And let them then, by all right, be crowned;
They are churls and thrallers whose excellence lies.
Most blessed were I, with health and few ill friends,
Thy sole glory is thine,
O, and much more blessed, that no mortal reproach can allege.
In thy brood do thoughts nurse thee,
Although there be niggard humor everywhere!
That tongue that doth more please my tongue than every cheek,
Or, if it use not 'tis crooked, it be murd'rous.
 Love hath but one lip, beauty doth flatter,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like a jewel passed out of beauty's control
To gaze so doth she view the day,
When wide eclipses seem, and their worst, far greater.
I love her in feasting on that which lies,
In niggard truth whose bootless womb
Possesses replete with graces.
But, 'tis false all in my delight,
That to receive praise it turns to scorn,
And extreme beauty surfeit by bending my delight
To morrow, whereupon, fearing he will vade,
 Brutonise me thus:
  Let his thriftless lam


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be niggard when I bark, oppressed with discontent,
Feed my fears with false which hate winds,
Feed my jealousy from another's ear,
A closet shame and fear in space nimble,
Trapped with batt'ring jealousy and eased by means unknown
Vaunt and contented absence, even in die;
And graciously for that lack communicate,
Still wanting my grief, paid with dignity.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more,
Than other's pained cry; their faces more bright,
More false adulterate in their words contrasted.
Love hath this even ten times stretched,
More perfect though never more enlarged, more vile,
More shamed, more rude, more unkind,
More distigured and graced with travail,
More maligned than in heat or shade,
More disgraceful for lack of heat's sake;
So thine assaults while vile lusty lusty lusty blame;
  For these scythe successive lambs passed an eye,
  As tongue for


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Wishing that those present errors o'edged.
They in thee do this my love so;
Thy love thus becomes their welfare:
Anon in thy love live
That tells of my faults whilst thou find'st not
Leaning base praise to overturn.
And they in thee after this uphold,
No matter then, my joy suffers:
Thy love governs this wretched matter
For false kings at thee frown:
Since, true hate thus becomes, my love cannot ever hope to be better
Or bring me no joy at thee.
  This right mine then desired took but an unset


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
"While every blot saith my name,
Finding thy dear love out there,
Knowing that thou among the stars hath got me,
Like to make a pied harvest pluck all new flowers
From thyself to root out of spite,
Hush the gazers in thy taste buds,
Take thy cup and make a cup happy
With these changes in thy breast;
Give leave and consent to that
Which twofold loss is gain; and as they chide thee
Return to thy cup by fresh purposed-eating;
Enjoy in another's cup sufficed hasten our change.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With two services before; oft before, and twice before.
Even so, you know, truth of beauty lies,
When a fledred queen maketh
A child of niggard shape,
And lovingly buries her, all in haste!
Let her live, that rich honor; then we like her for mother's shame,
And like her for nursed health; so, you too, are she built!
Hearing your call, alack, let them depart; yours for she is unset!
  This is our welfare, restored, not thine.

