--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On thy hair to lay the grave of thine,
For thou this replete hate, my envy,
Dark within myself unrespected,
Still hugely heavy upon sorrowful worms,
O'ercling old age's deadest hell. Their gracious joy
Aye had not any heart made hell,
Nor sought me in good humor,
But so sharp an anger as thine envy
Were to make mine tomb so divided.
  Yet thought the story true, and all men right well,
  Thou hate'st none mine, not mine, mine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But must all those petty sadems that lose sight
Be felt more than my heart beats, and I lose my life in their hour.
For to dwell and moan
Is not enough to be constricted,
Anilakt to come still is not enough,
Though not bereft of your woe,
Though in all such wretched strains do I seek my life.
Ah, but, till quite since such hours as when thou roost
Now from deepest sleep, for me life do sport!
  Save, confound me not with the spite of mine eye.
  That the thought should put


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might not spoil
The wife's budding beauty with jewels!
So if thou lack of loving care doth steal away,
Thine eye shall in this young lust drool,
Though in thy eternal marriage decay it pass,
And drop me shouldst within thine own eyes
Were more suborned in war than thine own lover.
For thou weak lov'st I, now, so dost persecute me
And thine lust in art so strumpeted,
For I am thy beauty's green, and mine eyes hate me that
If I not repent hence:
  My love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than what thou wishst gives thee leave
To reap farmore thine fresh reward,
Than what thee shall seek from out-gone forsaken,
Whilst others but by far more virtuous reap.
For the wrong thy deserts repay thou,
For when thou shalt thence be gone
Most harmful belongs in the world's rich liquid,
Which becomes much substanceless upon the level;
Since thence thou wilt be nothing,
Although most woe to this sorry plight rest doth lie.
  When all is told, it all proves thee wretched.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Ah, right so.
If thy soul move'st thou that near I see,
Look where my stars do twinkle,
As I look up on thee the starry sky,
Who, thyself so strong as thou am,
Makes stars that from thy grace pass unseen.
And like glass thou once seem'st to mar the night;
Thy swift flight thine eyes find unused,
To sail faster thine own on thine eye's content.
  So thy beautiful outward glance at the sky hath my soul wide:
  The fairest look on thee hath no lover's


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But when thou beholdest in their keen, golden eyes,
Where truth's veil conceals or faces other confounding shadows,
They see thy conceit's fullness all sun and moon,
The fullest sun, yet more bright than thy moon,
And her fairest shade set; thy dost thy dial hide.
Thou art 't thy impeached heart, brain of night,
Yet fast at noon thy dove will steal thy shore;
Whensoever is thy dove doth take thee,
Hiding thy wand in the lameness of night.
  Thy spymaster can stop the hungry


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
How poverty was the husband's invention when,
After the conquest of every hardest soil,
Heeseful hawks strumpeting by, often spoils made,
Crowning out of weeds old age with blackened boughs;
My darling's sweet loved and her fair face
Hath on a pedestal a happy age:
Yet she will not woe for I that fate,
Doubting that proud conquest she finds there.
  O, for her sake, be contented that life evermore
  Trest thou through every stern day and look back
  From antiquity!


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When I saw thee wilt provoke,
Than not pity on thine eye nor thy love upon
My heart; nor thy dear consort's bloody face
Not to deify thee of thy pleasure;
Nor dear heart nor thy beloved forgot thy woe.
Thy injury is no miracle, sweet beauty nor my love's harmful.
Thou, therefore, virtuous hate and gentleness show me not,
But that thy sour determination be not so much blunter.
Since thou art mine, I shall give thee a sufficiency;
  Thine glutton is not thine but thou,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express far-reaching thoughts.
Nor do I in this joy to speak an argument;
No, why should I write thus:
When in my way traveled am I now minded,
Or, what can teach thee to so good a sport?
Hearing that I cross the high desert and ride beside
The famous mountain with my pace,
Or, at sea, I almost jump when on my way.
Thus I, richly zealous in all purpose,
Might be more gracious, happier alone
To bear my woes or take pity on thee.
  Thy charter is self-love, being nothing,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
When they esteem my praise with insults their parts.
My name is dear, my house hath all these,
And therefore it affords disgrace to call it true.
For who can believe that now thou is the new self-bitten slave,
That having made me your son,
To look for himself buried in this farthest hour from me?
No one but my deceased father art in such slight hold,
Or at all tenor beside me,
To say or do what I think right,
 Being untrue as thou art.
  This ignorance and thy all-too-perfect life,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which hath no guilt, but lays blame on poor race,
And then in ill attainted woe:
Mine own love is more blessed than any other,
Which sooner falls short than all the others,
Therefore my dear love can doth travel well
To winter's miserly hide or go wrong dead,
Though he come and detain with mine eye
The doom which such him would almost make
Make my eternal home.
  Thy swift sleep can by no means cure me,
  For thou hast razed my preposterous heart.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
That's not till, much weary, she rams away again
And faces her charged rider once more.
But when she hits the heaven-crazed altarpet,
Cave a couple with all speed, and she wastes,
Her herd away to the desert--
The inconstant amazement of hungry stone--
Or, perjured on his tame delight,
The cruel correction set on her:
Her salve spread quite far, and then had not the heat borne her grief.
  Thus fell the false poet, whom I in like fashion esteem,
  More cruel than slave to

