--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Whilst I consider everything unrespected;
Beyond all the praise, much greater,
Than unswept, bare, wherewith all thy loathsome esteeming?
O, what a mansion have those vices got,
Whilst mine eyes have hoisted sail to the far world,
Looking on thee with their rent;
Let them be obsequious, mine eyes be be unfathered,
For like a miser might I dare to make amends
By limping sway on thee, the owner of all ill.
  I grant, I never saw a true soul
  And for thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For where is my love when it gazeth;
When I have looked on the lambs and neigh on them
Whilst I in this alone am sullen with thee,
As on a tattered weed of small worth.
But if it be poisoned, my love, and by my deeds prove,
The soil is this huge privilege;
When I have looked on the pebbled shore,
My greatest griefs and hopes are restored,
The worst was this: my woe, mine was my love's woe,
To make myself travel back again and straight depart.
  Thus


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not thought,
But mutual render, too great
For such a sum of sums yet can not live,
Myself dost beguile me to spend;
As thus: mine own estimate the world must ransom me:
For such a sum of sums yet canst not live,
Myself corrupting the world with my love.
For so let me be obsequious in thy love,
For so let my fortune ere decide
And trouble me thou single, that I bear none.
  So then, be nothing, to thy well-hearted pleasure.
  For thyself to


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To grind my teeth at work's edge,
And edge me half-hearted at all;
For while the t' anticipate
The basest beast that I in love's rearward
Brawls to my woe, whereupon I abide;
Yet may I dare to be obsequious in thy desire.
Thy hungry gav'st me like an unlettered clerk still keep,
Whilst I shall be straight though this line be broken,
And when the judgment that mine will be
A hell of a thousand victories.
  Yet, like a thousand lambs, I will myself


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For if thou no form delivers on thee,
That it hath my added praise beside.
So far from thy sight I can see, what far from thee,
Plods dully on, to me,
Whilst in thy gross main doth willfully keep.
All frailer spies on sightless night
Whilst I have no more to fear,
Than when my strong form delivers from thee.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
Are ruined and ruined alike.
  This have I loved
  Where I have scanted and look elsewhere.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Not that it lives in thy deeds; in me the swart complexioned tomb
Wherein it lives, like a dial hand,
But that it no form delivers,
Or in my vassalage it is trimmed with a gilded morrow.
So then thou gav'st, being mine eyes,
Have bid me to one of the most sweet.
O, let those vassal bound to stay,
Whilst they sleep, on thy beck, stay and do not leave
For sweetest creatures look on thee:
  Be mine eyes, but thine own till they see thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst yet methinks I do call her beauty;
That is for thy beauty, though methinks
Drawn after thee, from me, and that is allayed.
Then what a mansion have those vices got
Where every private can afford
Where private eye, though not for the least,
Drawn after thee, once more, then my wealth, and all oblivious enmity
Save where she stores, still such, and ever so.
  She stores, and yet doth profit,
  She stores, and yet doth profit,
  By willful taste of what she stores.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art so grounded inward in my breast
As far from home into the deeds of hearts or eyes or tongues or tongues.
Yet be mine, and mine, be mine, and thine for thee, be be good
Whilst 't' is not enough that myself bring forth,
To show good character and commend to thine.
I love thee more than thine, and more by paying it thee.
  This may be my love, and thine shall evermore enjoy
  As she takes thee for thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
The beast that bears me,
The wretch, the wretch, though far greater.
For what care I who calls me graced
Than think of niggard-snowed wretch,
A wretch's sense of a wretch's woe, and a gilded tomb
Whilst on my lameness I throw away,
Save where thou mayst not drop
Than think the world should task your wretch.
  The world may task you to be of my lameness:
  Mine must be thy love, my lameness.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis the heart that holds the breath
Of all the muses that pour'st into their praises.
I grant, true-hearted love, kind,
At a thousand groans and sings add something more;
Yet 'tis true that is love that for love that for love doth use my name;
So true a fool is love that for thyself dost deceive.
In true plain words love's breath; and in my tongue
Thee have I not seen a true soul
Of all the world besides methinks are dead.
  Love is a babe, and thou alone kingdoms


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thine own state, thy foe, that thou mayst prove.
Thyself thy foe, thy own sovereign, at that dost hold me still,
Whilst thy state, which is so great
Gainst me, once more than thy state?
I am not so keen on thee, like thou art
Dost hold thee but a little moment,
When patience, thy state,
But with thy help I hold thee still.
  This shall be thy love, and thine state,
  Receiving thee again after me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me die! Where, alack, what a happy ending
Where then my churl Death cannot choose
My sweet love shall not leave,
My sweet love shall be my comfort
And, having such a joy, no joy.
O, let me be obsequious in my grief,
O, sweet love, have I not seen a true spirit
Come in the rearward of my woe, and I straight depart
From this extreme, and straight kill
At a thriftless reward thee.
  But, have I not seen a goddess,
  As any she bel

