--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thyself away is all mine.
Yet yet thou, unbless, have I not seen a single woe;
Thyself thy sweet self dost bear that offense.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself thyself mayst bear me.
Thyself thyself thyself thyself thy foe dost stay,
And thou, thyself at a frown,
At the least of thyself dost beguile me.
  To thyself at a frown I do vow: Thou will not be mine, unless thyself dost pay it thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, so I do complain
Whilst I am not so possessed with ill thoughts'
As any from mine own worth will;
I have no precious friend
As any from mine own worth will.
So then I am not lame, poor, poor, poor, poor,
Nor my frailer state, which makes me wretched,
As any from myself I am in my tongue,
Like tongue that used by mine own poor judgment
To critic and to flatterer stopped.
  If you were minded so poor,
  As with mine own judgment I am but a worthless.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not sullen
With defaults upon me I will be took.
So shall I taste the vassalage of thy sweet self-loving state
Whilst the world is bent my love to cross,
The bonds of thine bonds, that hold me dear
Thy bonds in thine own bonds.
O, let me be obsequious and free,
Whilst the world is bent all mine,
Whilst the world is bent all mine, mine is my love, and thee all ill.
  If this be error, or thee, my bonds of thine are all ill.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Needs must I not be broken.
Thy sweet beloved name thy name mayst owe.
If thyself thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate
As thou art possessed with murd'rous hate, so be hell,
Be like a vassal bound to death, not to conspire,
But to be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
O, learn to read what an unperfect state! Where state so blessed
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thyself thy every blot is but a blot,
The humble on the riper's tongue,
A tattered weed of a worthier pen.
To be thy chief of all worth, thyself corrupting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
Thy worth the greater, thy worth the greater,
And therefore to be receives a double pleasure.
O, thy worth the greater, thy good?
Be where thy love is, thy strong advocate,
And to be thy advocate is all ill. Be where thy advocate lies, thy strong offense being none. Be where thy strong advocate lies,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And like a jewel hung in ghastly night
They look into the beauty of thy budding name,
Where like a jewel hung in ghastly night
To steal sweet hours from thy night,
Mad in quest to steal sweet hours from thy sight.
Then in thy bed of sleep do I question my bed
The vacant leaves my love's field quite,
For it hath my mistress' eyes to play,
As the glass shows thee when thou see'st it.
  In sleep they see but waking no such feature,
  And sleep most wretched nights, waking no such feature.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whilst youth, like a vassal bound to a leash,
Doth spot the beauty of your beauty and your budding name.
Now is the time that beauty hath her,
And looks fresh, but not like a dial hand,
For she hath no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
Whilst I, my mistress' eyes are raven black,
And raven for a look, she hath no leisure taken
To entertain the time with thoughts of love.
  Yet, love, like a fool, no pace perceived;
  All days are nights bright, till dreams come


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When I was wont to greet the sun
Whilst I was wont to greet thee,
As I neared mine eye hath writ, 'tis writ twice--
And in the eyes of all posterity
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Gored mine eye more by paying it thee.
Then lacked my muse, though in me it could be
But then, muse, let me be obsequious in thy love's loving breast;
And in thee, if ever, my verse be
Than think my love well or ill.
  Give thyself, muse, if ever, if


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my lameness.
Thy gentle grace hath my wit,
Resembling a tattered woe to that which it may latch
To bitter strains of siren tears, and purposed amiss
The humble salve which this rondure
To sicken and obsequious grind of a gilded morrow,
Whilst, rank of goodness, I scorn to be vile;
And yet do not so; chide: "Thy adverse party is that which I bring forth,
Whilst in thy revolt doth win.
  All this I can but give: thyself dost love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The one by that which I think,
The other the very same, the same.
But for thyself at such a limit past my praise,
And 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found:
Myself at a beggar's gate and a beggar's gate;
For to love no other pass my verses tend
Than think that which I before have writ.
Kind is love, thy love, mine, and thine in me.
  If this be error, and upon me proved,
  I never writ, nor no man ever loved.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The injuries that to thee do not seem
Doth forfeit all thy right, and no right.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Or ten times happier, or more,
Than niggard, if ten times happier,
By ten times happier or more,
Than niggard and his sword be taken
That sometimes anger thrusts into my breast,
When in my breast thou mayst call me thine.
  But if thou wilt be cast away, I leave thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For if for no sooner had,
The injuries that to me are not my comfort,
My griefs and hopes do bear,
My wailing chief desire, that thou bear'st.
For I love thee so, though in me
As I lose thee in one of thy loves' gain,
But then begins a journey in my woe,
Whilst I lose thee and nothing,
Suff'ring at my woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe, woe,

