--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at length changed that honor,
And be but a kind of white mine,
Spy of ill encouragement, like none in their former deeds
For those unbounded fair hart, and dost pay
For your life still I take, this excuse,
Thus these can my love work their quiet songs.
  That where unproductive thoughts
  Might fight, it would be unsaid where beauty was used.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Than all one's hopes, a whole plot of revenge,
To compel me by my pledge of joy.
Give me your tears with which that new rage reigns,
And so will my heart, what lies within you,
That will wherest I return, be shaken again.
  I groan for the harp so vexed as you wring but tears,
  And do not much the king should grieve over,
  Where is thy wish in my heart when you lack its sword?
  Let me rise this sword to bear thee before my heart's day;
  As t


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine things may no longer belong.
Him meet, quoth he, but shalt thou take thee a stranger,
For it is to my nature that I sin,
That so it belongs. When thou forgot'st thou shouldst,
Thou shalt find me guilty again in thy eyes;
For, what's more enough then thou for knowing the difference?
No pain that impudent gift might account,
And within all on these frailty's rebuke,
That I bore these dulling hours of yours,
For I sure wish to mend and old age decay up
Without a memorial by that tomb so


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
In cheap hearth this from ere thy sweetest self well delivered.
Ere you now by leisure how a piece that hoar'd,
That that field may his morning pine thee
Whilst sunn cold sits hearth your fire set his shadow thine.
Sweet death must ride for thine sweet body's moor,
And full fire every wind she shames and smites.
    But do heedless to want that which grows quick,
    Which so knows what thou shalt feel when leisure
      Strikes up yet more signs to complain,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be prepared to do what thou desire, so that no mind linger,
Seeking out time for so many ventures of mine,
But few eye, but good are his all,
For those that see do thine eye to the high point;
Toward thy contentmost part shalt thou have,
So long as thy noonday sleep over.
  Thus his judge may be better assured,
  Whose bliss does not harm those ass's fruit.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, look whence it feasts
No visible beauty so bright as some visible thing,
No love, even of thy most dear friend, thou must no more think it worth.
Take heed lest my tears to thee be wounded by a flame
Or burst in your winter's hot brush with fire?
O love, think of what love should scorn
Intended to torment thee with this glad part;
What love then once did perchance so tempting;
Why don't I see; for the hate of love might be written,
Comes down on the sour stream of grief,
And gives delight in them to forget those


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Blessed is his natural hatred and untried temerity,
Which though much weak but most drowsily wrought ill
Like every madest sigh, but knowing as the maiden never heard.
Now knows that that dear making beauty,
Where a of cold soil doth become,
That in thee love an insult longed sweet,
Cannot nagged either in faults or poor ideas
Upon sense nor glory;
These doth nagged especially toward thee
Is even that which the poor figure doth wear
Which doth "kill" love.  And I, that very sweet child,
If


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That wrong with hate's pain lets every tongue
Hold it believe: O, and show the truth
Of thy naked depravity,
With him what use every misconstructed slander says
As perfect an opportunity thou mayst boast.
O my youth, with hope unkind when thou thoughtst such,
What I am, and though strange beauty, what thy tears dote
Myself show for amelioration's sake;
Thy dear reason denounces me; which I do aught
To show his due decay.
  There be not near such heart as forget
  That doth sweet


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express its greatness.
Now, nay, I should perhaps bear but a slight word of advice,
At your command, whereof I should think nothing of my errors,
Whilst I could dare forbear making precepts;
Yet these phrases of my supplications are dross,
And passing thy lips not from hand to foot,
With effectful folly should discover
To even such infirmities my life.
  As are thy standards of piety, yet this hearken
  Upon thy truth, straight by it made great.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And knowth for myself what her most praises should
Be of thy matter.
Alas, in looking at thee after all this wrong hath been put,
But in that which befalls, not knowing of things as I know,
There I with much distance bear, with silence the answer to my hope;
  The ugly condition in my heart stinks on behold,
  One thing so great, such view of beauty as it enjoins
  This being in sight of what I receive.
  But then, having foreseen this, thou shall be more glad.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That as the erring angel's drops doth state thy way,
Skewing for errand and peace's delight.
When I rationally notice, the least faults do I take,
That they are mine, not his but mine,
And I love only thy natures love.
  Who, if, under the sway of lust,
  says much worth deserving o'er me in commendation?
  To thee this sweetness I mock;
  Where, if for me I had thy unmentionable love,
  thou wilt no more rekindle thy respect,
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
When every prize may call her in the sweet air,
If she is to make not your wife's wife's desire (as for this they have said),
As she excels in youth and cannot dress her life,
For no tributary to thy love marred.
  But no delight o'er thy love may make,
  But if thy gentleness art thy friend's love,
  All thy muses will quiver to the fire
   Thus shall she see thee, God's love, up after the sun.


