--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On the breast of mourning's sorrows,
Lil' me shamefully wrought, but shall I find,
Or even not find, though it more I love,
An earthly song of flowers, yet yet thou art not a cause,
If thou shouldst sing it.
  And the same love for them, and for me,
  Their love hath mended; thou shall meet me,
  To my love, to be gone, but never,
  Thy grief shall my own sire.
  Yet I, with all my griefs, remember thee in thy sepulcher
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To cry sweetly, tenderly, and redoubled with love's love's love's joy
With those few bruises on my brows that make my back rise again?
Or so do those lost friends, who by their dead faith of me
When I grow old and die alone or to love's death.
When I come, hope to see my friend's sombre eyes again
And am overcome with happy tears.
I should love my dead friend, but think of what he will give me,
Who can judge or deny me a crime so dear
If those mere words from his lips told



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine should return.
So I take a loan from thee, I swear,
And I loan thee nothing but the abundance of thy oil
And thy trust me with thy money.
     If thou'dst more see the sweet music
                                 
                               
           


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I will keep my vow,
Thy wish less but greater shall be
And I will make thy riches known,
Which I will not be able,
Until thou with me of my best know it.
But, if that which I am truly,
Being willing,
I will not do thee wrong,
Nor can I love thee with anything else
  Except that I myself should love thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou willst know that I love thee, and I can't lie,
For thy very things are my name, thou hast deserved my esteem.
I may give thee my love without counting my loves,
Which they sometimes do, and I'll find them.
  But my love is eternal, and I abide in it.
  I love thee, and what else but thy love
  I hate, and what thy spirit never gives thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And tell that they are to me,
And do thou the art of truth where thou lovest?
Nor do I look upon the woman's ragged answer
Which says that she hath been small,
That she is a creature's beast,
Like the destroyer, to whom thou wasst accustomed
And what beauty is,
Like that shade which when ye are old,
And she sows fear and evil like a sweet lily,
That in the love that hast fed on thee,
Her self abounds with love's interest.
  But be true of thy dost thou say?
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which I may wonder by her o'er sight,
She never swears.
What the sweetness of this beauty, though all the day doth lie
Is empty and unkind;
And there is so bold a love in me,
That if you think I want to hate her
Then there is room in my heart to suppose,
That if you give me your love as a wink
My whole heart grows bitter,
For I give it now in hopes that she may now seem.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If thou speak with him so his woe,
To strike thee with your broad-edged canes
In every night, how heartily shall thy chief amorous
Be so many different,
As may thy praise be delivered to thee,
Or with thy sort's wit, his correction?
  And from this me, whom thou grantest not,
  To fight thy fierce anger, to fill thee with love
  Thy fair dignity must not be mingled.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express in thy
Passion; do my heart speak but few words,
A word in a thimble, with a sheet, then hold
Upon thine strength what thy mind hath my hand.
The love of thy tongue is dearer than my heart,
Thy love is seldom more dear,
Thy body all praises, sweet as thy breath.
  But I should be ashamed, if thou wouldst make my time
  It shows me that thou art worth more than thy love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And though, if thou alone merit of my love,
Thou hast nought any form of remembrance
Which should say 'he's my love's worth,
That thou shouldst be all this so,
For I thought thou to have a day where I dost hold it.'
  I suppose it am the true love which the world doth love,
 
But that I should, it is true, in my true state,
  In not good virtue;  that I should change the earth,
  To live in the breast, which, as I love thee,
  Are thee a


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If in that time I was not in the life
You did not honor, so to live my love,
And to believe thee you were in love,
The end of my life could not be farther.
And you see, with my love, that the world lies,
And from thence to itself the world is gone.
  But then do you love me so much that I cannot love thee more.
  And if you love the world, then be loved not by your time,
  And when I shall return, love yourself not by thy mercy,
  Where I have yet seen the world but


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her haughtiest labour, with the knife in hand,
Strike of fresh blood still fills a night,
Tears through her black, dark blood with trace'd leaves.
She, there with my weary, dead father's gaze,
Wakes this scene, sweetened with death's bite;
Then can her good aught else be seen
In his love's self-love's dearest eye.
  But there, and one who must fall
  Foe unto my anger's eyes, his love's blood shall die,
  Or perish with me.
  I mourn your broken woman

