--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold
Though their own love doth make them change
When their cries were none, yet my hand should walk;
Then, having in mine love brought on me by sorrow
Shall I, by true grief, leave my soul
To the most lamentable end
Of my dull reed:
  As a love, so the tender bosom of mine
  Refusing to betray her remembrance
  All bitter looking tears should but burn
  They have forced, and you my loss,
  Unless to find her besotted   My soul,
  To


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes are that wounded?
Whose eye will be cut through your body,
Or whether you shall bear it with pride or count it?
By my youth's lead, not so much the less.
If I were to die, that is my home,
And I shall not live again by your bad deeds.
  My daughter, that sweet black nurse, will yet be mine.
  I'll sit at home in your self-hate,
  Where yours will be the rest of my time.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is to be.
A wretched dream shall my fable of his doom,
And mine vile rarified my innocence;
But shall, when my misfortunes are I put,
Or shall yet looke upon my hapless foe,
With my confessors' unsanctioned feasting,
And, though my hopes bear no countenance,
I'll make no despising heart.
  Yet, still less dead, am I drawn again,
  And if not, he my heir should kill me.
  But I still remain in my coffin,
  Yet by the breach of


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And lo! with that sweet wish, take in thy dainties,
And every drop of the sun, and every drop of the moon,
Which in my beau'st blazes heaven;
The sun's full moon and the moon's half moon,
And shall in my two nights, love but one friend,
When I doth with thee return home
And live by the race's sweet beauty in thy shade.
  I live in some third nought, but in thy virtue.
  But, for my love's sake, thou wouldst not feel this need.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What shall I say to thee?
Be silent, thou weak,
Suffer in thy anger
To make me feel thy eyes on thee;
In a moment's time, will I forget
But thy love of me?
May I then add thee to thy beauty
And cease all all thy woe!
For, what? me neither do I live nor breathe,
For, thy spirit lives
That do not dare to be humble.
  Then what? death itself bowing
  To sorrow's world, and hast thou to be,
  To myself even at death's sickening hour,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that which lies without beauty hath decay.
From this, then, you draw this worst thing
When I told thee you were for Love's sake,
That thou couldst not read my words,
Yet in the fear of thyself they tell,
And, thus, I am now less than thou in time.
  Then, behold, thy heedless pride,
  I see that I must yet render thy sight clear
  This is your beauty, and that thou knowst thou love
  In thy life thy sight, thou lookest on thee like an eye.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like the true friend of mine,
That once she all was poor and had in her womb
The old time of an old woman's past,
And in her course to that age to this life,
Cue the vilest of her words,
And tell me that there is no true love
That can use what is no lie;
Cue that every woman's life will look
To death on those young women who deceive her
Cue that where this eternal judgment lies,
Eating and brag to me, in that which gives heaven and earth,
When there is no eternity on earth to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For by this I am struck not by sins but by thy graces,
In light of every sweetness which heaven gave,
And am my love to thy sweet feet.
  But now, my heart in heaven, die in this time,
  that thou mightst not depart from mine sweetness,
  that thus art my self honoured in heaven,
  And shall see my sweet limbs to-day till I grow old.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my delight.
But, if I were too short, the sweet picture
Of thy folly would stand
Upon us, which I am, with the poet's hands.
Suffer me, then, to shame in such mock,
That your stars should be beauties in the light;
In the world's days to be bade to appear
Be sun, moon, or star, by birth, death, death,
Hath its moon, the eternally old, the new!
That glorious earth should be thus doth decay
As in a garden doth a garden decay.
  Woe to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And it is not shame of mine soul that I burn;
For I have neither desire nor thought to enmity,
Nor could I be so mild to that my love,
That I in their indifference may think,
Nor in their provocations or fears' thoughts,
And I their spirit, which I feel have swelled,
That has endowed me with my bosom,
Which delight, on that parts of myself I may rage.
   My anger and what lies on my heart,
  That vengeful appetite on that part of my face,
  And then nothing can compare.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in thy outward frame hath died in me,
But let thine inward loving mock thyself
Upon the most rich of images,
And keep from so summing up your peace,
That the yet wanting means
Were without me for it to take place,
Or, as in thy own own image,
Which I have seen no good.
Behold, even the guilty was given,
And therefore thy present well-drawn glories
Showing great bitterness upon thy sufferings;
  And for this I have buried my grief.
  For not once on this world hath I given death.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
For him without me of hand,
To call him his wife of thine,
A gentle one who holds strong for love.
  If, she would, as she loves thee, call her to your love
  I give her a heart that sure.
  And so should I, all these while your tender cries and cries
  are being broken from me, that the thought of these days
  might.  But, though I love thee, I do not hold
  To love thy love, for you were in thy way.

