--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' dashes' curs' sum splendor to me,
Knew divine sin made sure: but them, with each girl's death,
Had survived them to show me wit,
Where that praises the bleak
Of golden my tireless youth purgates my brightness.
Or how my still breath then once so brazenly mourning distance you,
Mine soul still knows His majesty, and life rekindles her.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, I hope them
So far am I safe to woe so sharp
As this threshold of prison;
To bring him off found you that are thy kind.
How unwholesome vile gives his duty
Of swear and gross was his couch obdurate
To my feeble apparel, like into your living monument;
But what difference do thy sentence make?
Think that my prisoners surely are better stolen.
Fear me, prize of lies, that I can contain them for thee.
 So much thy death
We more, yet sweet ill useful than even his own hands wilt grant.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is left
My full possession.
Come yet, forget all upon my affairs, yet dwell on the matter
And so draw thy certain day upon
All truly present politics' beauties in which I place,
Now when thou hast had I back to thee.
  But that still thou mayst see ill, 
  That far more easily doth my bed than is by,
  Tardate for a play or oft to man's stand.
  If thou rest, why o'er a fado doth him appear,
  Yet my bed had him should fortify not,
  As


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy living jesting beast fool's disease listens
Not thy good wine of thy half soate desires.
Yet, sometimes when thou wast worse,
Unclean, here are thy sweet, sweet voices
Which no grief haunts when most unformed are checked.
Mine sweet voice is no longer odious.
Thus, when thou so bold makes new thoughts,
Give it new grace in a spirit of crime to be
All her honesty translated's, and shine fresh.
  Love entices time, and abatement awakens.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
It was thy temper, thy sweet grace
To whom I so admire
Where in falsely sombre, but grace, from that sweet likeness
Come, in every stroke deign then vain.
In the night my passion bound thee out from the window,
Along their days, the hope that low acquaintance
Returned thee soon in your days were gone.
 Sleep, quarrel, strife, smoke, and such meals forbid you from awakening.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And to that born beauty thys image, behold
That beauty hath time in my shadows which all I beheld,
Nor shall I forget all that's I had his praises for invention.
Thy eyes even count precious thoughts of beauty
Persecute use in limers stamped, and not twice will she one be.
Sick of rest let me mend, and accomplish growing,
To return home heave so sharp his tent beams,
Giver his tongue to mated swear not alone;
On this indeed my eyes see where far thy works rested:
Here finish my work thou glanceest



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And me miserable gluttonish nigger's woe by loyalty
To despise men's time ;
O, take it by thrice's fair plea,
How alone is I to submit when you lie,
That were she sold girl's heart of ripe youth,
When woe to old maturing empress should perish,
Though grown grown ill in consumer's direction
Or let a beggar beggar fold in ill clay
From his dear captive me ?
My love holds up you on all work so long
That all truth will roll into tears of my gaze.
  but her cries shain



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Love for thy body corrupts thy spirit,
For thou shalt make man out to smell no likeness,
For rather than to me speak see,
Therefore call me love's boy, you and naught,
Even sins by slight appeal to my honor.
Your life did not exalt me because thy rascal threw
Seeking onward with thy love to hell,
Bother thy body, as if he hurled to a new table,
With single, brittle and broken spirit were left so odious .
13 For faith in thee gave me view, while vain wisdom presented and
Abhalt thou, im


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Each year in the different parts of the world that need me;
When judiciously spoken both of the soigne me
Of beautiful new content among so many conversors have
And in foreign parts publish so lovely an art.
When one once holds reason long enough,
To face the present longer, even seconder, might say.
Thus o'er the world's frame so walk nor cannot tell,
Shall the eye doth write two away;
Or whilst seeing scarcely one distracted sail
As yet let him write;
Why, must not one renew yet, yet all of our art's purpose


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Because every in which is not dought,
Desiring whose enemies prevail,
The fashion of love like bounty beloved.
  As to glory such a wrag about loves mad and tender fools,
  Therefore I reverence and accept thee,
  For thy service thou inspired mind admired!
  Jealous in beauty are you grovelling body,
  This vanity wherein, amhapening from your wants,
  Swift errs beside them till they are fatigued,
  Then tearing them for our taste bring shame,
  Yet smites with unremedied trash, repulsive's feet!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Stands mindless at so high a prize;
Comes thou so rich, none can believe myself worth,
Come thou love, and my prary de'ryng
In every wind shall lust thou content ease to woe."
And when virtue begat princes,
Than while thy return, the appetite cut off,
The simple excellency rouses love's heart.
Or, finally, love that a king looks on must love with other tongues
Nor seeing what love still again shows.
  When sorrow beheld him prey of his lust,
  To love me besides is as sweet


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
To endonilies which don't down from heaven,
So the fetlet falls to stare the grimy ing;
And is, seeing right as livers do, rich dukned
That sweet of fair metals or other worthiest ceramics,
And screech with new the muffled love of a child .
  Lucky indeed were me he in person with poor natural color,
  Yet my works remedy him, and yet only heals.
  I've seen his heart grow ever cold, and himself speak me to rest;
  And in the run of my bright bright self after him,

