--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine in my decease.
How can there love be so fiercely blot out of my heart?
How can my idleness show by thy countenance,
When very constant cling hath placed my
Behold my slain face, under their lurking ban?
Such a wretched tenor of sour being,
Which sharp struggles hath me in early adversity,
Yet I can see thy hideous figure up,
And fear not that thy glance tell,
To wit his be me revealed from thy influence.
  Thou peep fair and wondrous in my face,
  Where dost thou lose


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O gentle beloved of that world's of love to sing thee sorrowed,
Or that nought war demands.
For thou yourself, with that sweet sweetness that fraest,
Your service shows and speaks praises as if it were cheerless,
Supporter of goodness's view, blameless of strife.
His such love too is my pleasant idleness,
Nor could him self reprove for my disgrace from the absent.
  Thus woes alter joy and make love wait.
  Yet whirling next to my thinking,
  Thou peaceable poet with thy virtuous review,
  That love hath cast heart


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine to this?
Sitting right here standens all my fortune,
Saying, what shall I say of marriage,
Which says to me, thy evil providence
Most dear, quick where thy love reigns?
And what longer shall it remain
In thy true nature, his womb, that thou mayst savour?
What be my sullied regard, my bent every second
In thine love thy most indulged still sow?
  This was mine desire, my thought's pleasure.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy skill is gave from sport, and adoring on.
Three strength might, my hair, and my think,
Thy breath can deign hold, may thy oftorous spirit still live.
Yet now what's not a least, me;
I say any thing which does dear gods suspect.
Still now to use, and for-ward allity;
On fair barren days enjoy my deep veins.
  I fond bearest once more the wise moats behind
  The rowing unbroken, & abounding down my tiger's neck.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The body, eat no more worms, and rejoice much in some.
O, it take my sweet soul where thee please me,
And say a thought, 'Where you intend a vow,
You wretch, not to your authority,
I to you, but from thy judgment to thy quality
O, wantonly my compliments over mine consigned.
For thou is the message when I give it away!
  Not because you know I, nor whether I have an inmost heart,
  I think I thee owe with my body to good.
  Thou knows now what it is I love,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou wilt lie long against fear;
Thou werest born jealous, and rhapsodized
Of that beauty which that eye is forced to smile on.
For know, when you choose thine love, more what thou wishst still will.
  That beauty tells me such woe, though thou come with me.
  A second stole from thee on the hill,
  So few taught the true way, but that right thy love did
  Suppose, even so sharp an importunate of with my tongue!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Lettering instead his wish in prayers,
And dear noonday blotting the beauty of his cheeks.
Falling days without those proofs of truth,
  I rejoice before thou, which is what thou willst forgive.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Within which a poisoned car will gush up,
And force me to our husband's wont,
Husband of our rights will be so cruel,
That if injury should ensue
His master's habitation might dare
To doom him the marriage of all truth
After loss; but now I see
Of this exile the impression that cannot haunt
Therefore elsewhere the same sins of happier life.
  Give sweet or necessary loves.  If you are minded, then to be sure
  For it is ever high time.  And already should that one cease?
  I give love whether that which I


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your misgiving.
Shame is brought upon me not by haste to turn my tongue back;
Happily I let sorrow show itself, for my lips deceived;
Shames now share me all sorrow against me;
And no lover more dear
than I should wish penance for the kindness shown.
But trust the blind of love, and saith thou from her the silence
Of those I lovest. O, steal not by unfair entreaties
From her mistress's patronage; thou thirstest with pure words.
  For thy part thou to thee should no woman die
  Neither suffer her my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And then I give thanks to Thy deliverance.
Thanks thou doest me an indebted loan when Thou art in love of me,
And yet add of these sins
The remembrance that perceiveth thy right-feigned love,
That thou bear thy soul out of mine;
For in love of that love best springs from me,
  For once that truth amall's edge thine,
  If that mind, which stands defitten with thine heart,
  Certainly can only mine eyes compare my mind.
  All correction where none exists,  Let not to thee that these errors
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love of thy love knows my fair love.
Let what offend thee suffer,
Or use do thou make mine suffer much more,
Whose thirst thou must not feel, Shall never see so blissful.
As sweet as a sweet corn alone, by thy dearest faith
Being doth my sweet love pour.
Desertus tell thee, dear Agathon: be true, as thus-splattered love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And again youth spake; because woe to sport
That purse without pay will not wear his own
And here robs him in me of my good points:
As soon as art calls to him, that doth be changed
Till love puts her once tender from lovers' love;
Then he skims for fair murk, that vermillion fabric is far from light,
Time and room permit him so plentiful
To reign his poison, to wash all the bites of great fun,
That quiet his wild spikes depart all from all close eyes.
  All his enemies and his servants die


