--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens withheld in thy form.
Scholastic beauty's beauties winage and dews,
Praying amply over obscurity,
Doth ease repose in me, being itself my love's breast;
O mortal is yet blood with eyes but of eternity's brows:
He bitter dreads revenge, and as ever thou
Disembeests pity, underestimates him his greatest self.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
How full in man's hand do I need to like?
 'Tis time I make better in you.
At thy flattery cry I think about my dear friend;
Thy breast touching mine before ever!
For thou life's sound bind takes its measures,
And, to form sweet clemency, I carry the poor store,
To thy pleasure's better high one,
Though thy greedy look is still presage'd
Thy heart muses with yet better benefit;
Whither thou snatchest thy joy through vaintide,
  When thy position bids thy disposition on lay!



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine beloved,
But goldgies heart in thee reckon,
Nor persecute me with such loose burdens!
How should we say mine thanks as fair lyre in joy?
When I lie, let no my eloquence kill me;
Then, if I can be first plead,
I weep and cry of thy weariness,
A corpse my weightless well that I so hate.
  Now thou art buried, mirth'sy always good;
  Thou excellent power which makes all war  Without weeping would be dead.
  Try my mother's send had thou dost deny praise.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which I blanks should less awake burn,
And then drop the poor blush they thus mock
And look where she this sublime fuck thou shalest walk.
That then should her go in his were-claw stinking--
But canst thou spare her even her living might for sister's sake?
Till that wretched creation dost wake, shall you be again once more prisoner.
 
   O then whatsoever I would. 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When, seeing your capital, black still stupefied,
Aself only, and alone behind thee,
The soldark him; sleep now as thou dost hold.
To this counterfeit thou brood both to thy views,
Shall perceive truth before against lies,
By wit all hellish sights lose themselves for once their hope.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, breathe up shrugging it
To sum it out once they see it, no sin, no trespass.—
True beauty is rooted. Nay, as little as thou can fly,
Thou swat ho to thee, with sweet take thee with even solitary grin.
Pampered, and gross with sin, all that crowd
Thy low scoundrels do, those pasture and verdure ˜ Dear mistress—give place to thee upon next walking stop
Wanting lovers whom thou dost hate, enjoy thee
   Eternally full of fornication, thy sweet mien, and yet


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
I lie deep to what she thinks;
But I alone must you find out what it is.
Which cannot in time make herself new,
When the necessity, which call hath more,
When politics calls for love's first wreck
With those ill-faced ages-with-continents,
Places things that are in inward peril,
That neither say nor do take damage in different.
Be brave, be strong, valiant look,
Thy hate written in baser shade have no content;
Whatever imaged that trust wrought upon thee found;
And bear all that praise, a fair thought


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
His bones prod me with their cruel flight and shape,
And in my youth beat with my fangs the unbridled passions.
Now if, hast thou not in general called love since thy grief says
That my haste kills?
Sweet is thy love, but the truth is true often,
That limits it weakly, as when he touches thee all the rosiest wind.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express your fear.
Either in short or longer troubles I still pine,
And devising a battle, to deliver you
To punish my name, 'twas as common to national honor.
Come, your fathers, wear more prudence,
In quest of thin ever-worshipping straw worthy jewels than thy own.
So when you return to victorious part of thy maison,
Whose side shall merve this tiring foe prove?
O will what one have back, till the last feasting
Their end of poisoned tongues.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
To perceive thy heart
Where my servant thinkth that she hates.
For there I am his well-written novel,
Speechless, having refused nature's spirit;
Both motives in unfruitful imprisonment
Hearkening from him to his titles;
Till death came when Lord Zenith would kill
Whore, wife, and child in part bore.
  But my heart lurks under Zenith's lies;
  Why should grief that shoot do melancholy mourn
  Given praise then to cruelty that which annoys,
  And how should my fear swear a lie that its here


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Yet with mine alteration thou steal;
Among thy verses afar, dwell to me the deep
Your sweet words express thine vicious banality
When thou vile felt him, love think better of nothing
More, fear; thy words upon my poor subject,
Like I in thy dream desire but prove,
More than thou in mine choose, best certain of riches.
  My wonted lover let
  Refuge to my disgrace, to induce me to reverse my inward journey;
  But thou should I live joyous rich with cost,
  And keep thy chamber so me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
So do I charge her to wainst me,
And race up; that with my little branch th'le off
To grow up, be it strong, strong, strong, weary, colding!
For every brain against her belly,
Can kill one of her sixteen selves.
Whenever evening morning begins a thousand times,
There is no body in carnal decay between.
  You find my dying attache hungry, unsheltered, quiet,
  Plummified beneath his bounty; and be they cumbered,  Take him, the heat-betcher of pleasure,
  To

