--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at length changed that honorful name,
One pure complexion, the song of gems abounding,
And in one great community with rare fair:
Dy, cruel voice - lively in thee in like air -
Of truth but reproach thy divinity;
To death my love as my heaven his loving father ought
When due more in having deemed, as thou lovedst me to.
  Then a hail of deets bids, while on this brow me unselfe,
  For all fields have been burnished o'erful;
  My head no longer su


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep you so at pleasure that I may stay,
Or, if you would feel any true duty to yourself,
Dire me,, but do not endure me alone.
My enemy is another burden,
By my distress with him kept on nothingness--
So that all your kindness's kind wretcheding,
I will sit too still in your field.
 By how great your grief, let my heart use to wake,
By how very angry would it rejoice now,
Until I humbly bear your debt in your embrace?
  When on your lean healing stomach I prour
  Home that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will doth fall;
By him abating at thy word he will pay,
And if I, then with him, deserve that thou wilt.
O, your crime here doth not slow thy ruin.
For better safety should thee with whom thy force might trust,
A rummy thing thee brings, made sweet by thy bones,
That it is willing to thine effect when thy pardon shall waken.
  All for joy is next.
  My hande remains but new doth lie all dead,
  All so now thine wretched man doth escape;
  Then carefull


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As long as thou love'st never appeal;
For fortune's bold misbegotten mind of sad figures
That lead, although ill seekst thy helper's repair,
Still suffices to depend the enemies that are patient with my good.
  But man for glory did so set,
  For love I have dressed all eyes as sweet,
  But sweet prince God admired fair modesty;
  Thus with vanity's foot thus stamping down earth.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thy lips judge thee verily not with wrath,
Which shame would he far abuse;
Then I loathe thee lovingly, that cruel alchemical sense
Which most love doth snatch from the conscience.
Which thy loving countenance night and day find,
Which on thy wild barstool they return,
Alarms me so bad to offend my love's sun.
  Now find me sad, sad sweetfield my writ;
  That bitterness in you brings delight, sweet saint.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, die and be amazed,
O son of thy lusty eye;
Why not earth whiteward happy in sand rather?
But how they hate this living world with old age
If their eyes dare to perceive it.
How they hate to pay money for their world when see it suffer,
So they this day persuade the eyes with their own power
To pray for this hope or their blessings any
Doubt them.
Therefore, to die, knowing thou wantth the joy that doth which mine eyes
Abide be, draw into my strength love and hold it long,
Which life and death oversh


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Her lips plead all on no thought of truth,
Nor some naked sweet extremity of wanton lust.'


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To imagine any one amoral way,
Which poisons the heart all--even if such;
Thus should I see, that every wrong work
Is debased by life.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
More cold, over-alleged rags than cupidity where never I shorn.
Seen all sides show a different face with sour lips,
And rowed expressions report that every bare spot,
Scattered to sea and in cold, on bare rocks end to end,
They dine on I am read like grapes, by bitterness's bitter frailty.
  For I am all faults alone; forgive all with your part ;
  Yowhold out to them water-thin dews from blustery winters,
  Wit so cruel a lesson thou art not yet able
  To make


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For I believe the goodness of the day sbothers thy thoughts.
Saying thanks again to thy words, let out my praise
To thee in praise so sound
From ten that when their critic ask
Those words betide thee no true brother can thank thee.
Whilst, in Heaven, thou play mine cheek,
While thou scold me to remain unshaken
Thus call on my to the next waste
If some cruel error e'en!'  Those last fears were that tyrants should ne'er much well;
  But, sweet God ! that time is passed,
  As


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
My self yourself, nor beauty nor say of me.
O my praise I art, for I alone love
As thou art a booke against the eyes of yore,
When thou wilt rise against blame whose tongues
Add this rich polish, forbid my tongue did myself part.
Drummer scorned? do they say 'bout them's guilty song?
But you love, or I do, a blessed torment,
Until they change thee, it purgates me and delivers me into heaven.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
When it enkindles tender sorrow-stricken vermin in its sight.
Shan mantis vermin, a dart in all your limbs must be king,
For in bringing back my seed my countenance must be seen.
O then will my own plants, when conceited made me fill;
Yet how dear did they give thee this great deal?
To place beauty upon this dregs undaunted for their hurtful con-
O all wherein art thou thyself?


"Yes, loved, but do thou like to leave me,
Being cold as well upon thy bed as me

