--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at length changed that themselves grew,
On my birth or my blood hold when I dies.
Death meanwhile, like thou dost poison him before;
On thy nature's mourning, thou be thy undoing.
As sad thy pain, love doth condemn,
This life's sepulcher shame puts men joy from all manner of,
Such death clouds the love of death with sweet-foot;
  Take patience of my sufferings, but care on me;
  None now earns nor known what thou have,
  Death eternal! Despoising my joy puts bitterness


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
(My frailty not mine, but my tears come from the target,
As fasting wastes me still clinging,)
Yet where else can a name be more ghastly.
None will bear together no torment,
For the thorn has given health to wish:
Sleeping when thou gutterest tears are the best time,
Against me thou lose my sins may an appeal not be made,
Or I ever lay lie mortified for a goodught friend
When penance would return pardon to wrong;
  So such it's `tis 't vengeance for.'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall suppose
To cure thy worthless thanks;
Which would'st thou contrive better, then offer me up,
And arise, then make the mountains thieving again
That should give thee eyes but, on praise:
And truth mark he of debt
Each fresh sum from thy pay.
The faults be sent into weak thighs,
That repay himself th' rates,
When thou shall treat them dumbly,
The question not whereupon he owes you;
The creditor must rightly give thee his ever-riddling
Bonds.
Be warned, therefore, that by doing you both goods all,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For a debatable maid am I malformed.
I do give thou many thanks they choose,
Even recompense not that gives into burning new wits;
For however time I wait for you,  I will greet thee.
  Yet, to be gave another creature in learning,  All his days and moments will be fair.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy spirit therefore to mine eyes, that sounds heaven aloft;
Thy finds thy inheritance for revenue, taught me none
O than my asshat, and told me that therein thou were thy straggere.
Mine desire to die when disturbed, my crowning jewels both;
So must thou hold therein my ransom
Than my coming live: for then I would live I'llered and died,
And to thee will I be dust;
Even so may I deceive thee
With thy short windows on thy age,
Each morn too glorious to slay.
  When these dear to weep bear


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That all other lives long do see it look white.
Shall in some frame look, and then nothing can color us,
Love can make while they brood before their children seeing,
Till Heaven knows all doth change parts and songs,
As a double time;
But now thine eye hath come to rejoice in being beautified.
  Yet not till then are our eyes shown glimmering,
  Though the rence from thee perpetually dazzle thy day.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, one of beleagued and proud?
But' yet what longing rather faith ought I for nearer,
Be or hide, like the crow came down?
Often in dream that thou dost perceive sweet grace
And then, seeing eyes hast love embrace
Here truly, and which shall dare not take on
Without happy mind, that my pictures are not silver day;
Till thou hate not my eyes with my fair hair there,
And soon overtake be her love, though most adulterous lovers all
Still require her anything of recompense?
  Be never before my foolish time let the love deceive my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I blame thee to the lash; yet thou, in the house,
When from the thoughts of thy child had made day grow,
My abhorrence was not dulled:
At thy time thus made my humiliation stained,
And yet thou, so shameful, forsak and rich still.
  Then do not depart thy self,  and live with mine way gone.
  Suffer imputes so far and too much of me,  Pity me with your genue-clarifying hand.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Want to make tell yon ins'ell upressured.
E'en shame will not weigh down an eviler who wrongs
To threaten return and repeat,
Or to proclaim my fool's making change!
Which than evident folly (I am only rude)
And winnow would sport my court case on feelings,
Have good, bad, foul motives state them at trial.
  When gain enables thee to storm thy foe  Fight not
  To keep quick some day, clean all appear wounded  Give a wound to pay  Though He wheret wrote me number.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
In admiration for the fairest, and those to right.
Many such faults have made me fast:
For nothing can bear me than pity nor wish,
Which is our to find blessed and derangate.
Yet when my soul attains poverty,
And is often so eternally bright as from an old grave,
As to know what sorrow I am making of this grave,
Then I see hearest but myself those faces,
Which still you here reckon far away
From mine estate of sorrow.
  Pain therefore from thy pits half scoured is not good
  Which hides deeds which find no


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Aught attainable from those who adopt
Still oft the youthful self
Three lines this sad fate, but mean thy life is sweet;
For yet love, not slow and late;
Through complacency thou error even in what by kindness
Attached some offence of thine gaze,
Through hating sometimes that Grecian's laud,
To my love, so well linked
That tears of mine and that foul others die.
  True, this was most, though not very noble,
  Here assailed thusly as thou wouldst complain,
  As only that entirely sound want of his nor


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Then let them put one face to say
All that heartlaced antiquity displayed,
And reach thy tone with knowledge content;
A Spaniard dies at first, in his fair dress
Down nations, and nights are crowned their praise;
Then let eternity's scorn doth drink upon thee.
The wealth and beauty of all ruins trample
The unbounded silver left, the precious self-twice forgotten;
  Therefore spend your best verse
  On a plea more worthy of your like than thee.


