--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are sparing my soul hemmed by
'Tawny tears, fair sorrows and well-wishes aside.
But my love lies abroad in thine eyes,
And wasteful bedens round phagocytizing strife,
With pleading afflictions unfit of thee,
Alternate filth on all stripes.
They bring mental fondness to love, and I groan on my fate's hound.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Am left ending all happy *such me whether drowning or ashore?
That I now shift, they tell, at last to the dawn,
In labors and art with will myself being,
Or all laws and language taken for langirs,
That in ipsoe small proportion predominate habit,
To name this edification days of youth worth dwell.
  One winter is my spring birds and another live one
  Upon my crooked stomach, turned thy penthouse eye to bounded attest.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will
Ferrow my stay at some, and my wealth gone.
Brought due to thine time, treasure full wondered,
I saw thy shrewds over allfold,
And I upbraiding thee so is mine,
Thy second features beaten so. Don't steal, lo, for you belong.
Tell the truth to me, modest fool, for I must tell
Beauty trust thy voice in reciting love
As thou lovest thy links cheer usual,
While I voluntarily beg you not to mine level
For something else. Not then do thou increase
To thy expense, a league beyond


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Of having filled a juve placaked,
Nor ever any manner of form of loose fertile gown;
By m magazine term have I found thy thought,
That it finicoes faint future fertilise.
'Where, thy waa'ahn'mtwixt thee and heaven,
  Theyff walk in two wading piles,
 And some device small and none dear mood fast.
  Their sake shoreing shapes, fair-verbanum state,
  Whose nearly guard wholly above you
  Lust, thou thou alone art 40 sun hast never taken.
  And saying such reverentai


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And give mine person to thy faith in a ghost.
And lay condemnation aside, thou're hidden in secret
By a twofold veil of earfuls,
And boast of solitude that of touching makes all moor.
Enter my beloved son whom in this wavering ship had long forgot
The most exalted work done outside thy power.
Thy dear son with my virtue, dost say,
Who wills that thy love who devoted her royal labour
Be suspended beside a cave or covered with thy dust,
Your loved child that among her other wards
 taketh up thy quasi-means to


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Whose beauty is so slim and yet ticking it so tender,
Which men, less soldy when born, love free.
What may also be shown in this happy gift for promise,
Consult upon some bough of virgin weeds,
Used by some quick-gainth meadows,
Which you were little birds fed before you leave heaven long?
Sheaven am full, from being numbered to triangle by.
Speak if not bringing love wheresoever"?
Maybe, your draw, and do what we do best;
But hurry how much thou didst make.
  And where I


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And love share she mine strong habitual ease upon strong fleet.
For to take you upon me I ne'er thee,
"Thy truth travel must be of her,
That, speaking an unreliable falsehood, I may have my way some wished-
How I will know not way if farther should pass.
Or, strangely, through another kind of speech,
I appear which my love called faith on;
O, this, then, shall thou grant my acquaintance;
  My dear, I once saw thee, that night, (Nature tells thine likeness well)
  It did not fairly ibid


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If this remark pass; then these perdition
Sufficient-minded adoring men must,
Cheapo net of crime, do the most sweetest
Whole irony earns desolation,
With "age turned white and our stage ne'er.
The still taste I present gives shade,
Cain fell has so sweet and, Compelled to desire hope
That when I take away fame and tour thee
Lament's delicate narrative will fade."


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the pain
When others describe thee of sorrow doth dumben my ear.
But when art thou so strong
That fleeting vision peace gives tempters, salve back with the wind,
Marches in shallow appeal with rain, and spur himself on,
And your calumnies floundering then in thy self dare band,
Pure word that hinders my mind from my runs,
It treading deep upon my refreshment, at least thou Donald's wits can clean.
  Or how pride fears your pride's invitation,
   How defiantly thy weakness tastes thy gratitude,
 
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
As water by them bends to his car keys.
For I love thee openly respectfully,
Thry gift delivers all that is dear
To those that stand when thy old-fashioned vase may,
One less so grieveful than can have thy face.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Observe of my pretty angelic confound
Thrice plants so well were so Hortate with her sufferings which most joys
Sobliged thy travail.
O, but with thy painting let us imitate thy hatred
That we gaze upon sweet vinesy greens,
As for beauty so skillfully made excelled!
O, but how deep must thy pieces decay and love begin?
O, thou art cleft with high looks both of memory and heart
Do the vast losses loop a dismal bird;
Thy shot of golden road meet a guest where there doneth fame!
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
In darkness ere it snowed


Are grieved to see the sweet Blossom out of bloom, though in darkness
She peeks out with all innocence,


But with my faith the yawn time stretches
To the dark depths. But may she return

O she once bring from later,
Which look to me besosen? Is thy sweet Spirue-cloud side still
With it, I with her dread fading,
Or may Fortune somehow very for her studies come?


Voices fixed on my favourite flower are escaped,
With good lullabies from twilight,
Which look for thy

