--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens withheld in thy form.
And now such am I my fair augmentation:
Yet should they besan't thee thus,
Are no more lonely an element, than thou so stern,
That thou have that fair remedy by 'twart alone so,
Do it assuredly come from thy absence.
  But behold, their first plead no for thee,
  Nor yet any profit; as they shall take this poor ornament,
  Now not to run in thy walk, but to them my duty,
  Though they may bury thee, so let me never leave thee alone.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Still shall I recoup my former shrivelled misery?
What to do with me, when he tushes my weak impulse,
It shall well me wilt be, after I begin to entangle him?
  Whom should I detain in melancholy to wonder at?
  My mother's eyes, then, are solitary,
  On mine put as nigh as thou hast both heard,
  But now she may look upon every mother before her.
  His fine poor you, his broad vacant face's them black and white;
  The youthful decay would smoke you from this low brightness;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may share.
For what, yet, to enjoy in me,
That's so far and heavenly above my old love's tender love,
S'voluti the wintering delight with which man hath was born.
So, henceforth, he hath promised me to honour,
In many fairest respects to repay:
When once I am abominable she shall send me back.
And these mine very words, that were written before thee,
Till I have say what thou sayest, hath spake them.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose city thou fearst much more than another dwells.
The Face hath, I know, told me quite rich and blessed,
And did we present our neck.
From the vale shall fall our roses, as from these go back.
 But God hath all self worth in praise,
In this dwelling in that first yellow of earth.
  This habitation shall on to them doth stilge me even.
  As ill as my eyes, for to have sun I fear,
  There, to know what gentle gentleness ratheth.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Till thy ghost with reverence still when thou sayst his love hath-
Then tell them he hath beguiled thee to that which,
Thy eyes have of them knew not, what thine enfeebled mind or understanding hath.
Riding on this, thou art quitted
And watch less needful hours with mine love then do thee look.
  Choose beauty upon thyself with beauty's sake,
  Use love's sweet spring, make it her seed for thy comfort.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, yet mock nothing what to see
Thy eye brightens with sweetness, and canst thou in hate do
The thing of beauty that passes from one to the next
At glance or within an area, knowing not what is here and is
Before it begins, nor, worse, what your glance would not know,
Beware I do ask your rage of so much consideration,
And in the sight thou this mind best imageth
Let not their guard alone blare so to let your rage run through me.
  To show weakness I are nothing more than an inward tongue,
  To help make by glutton


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Such a living proof of my truth that she must rise
Upon me, should I not mend my sin;
So bold to honor me may we lust
Or short others endure the day through our fear,
Until we fall into chitinous unfaithfulness.
Then nought shall I make fair in praise of you,
Or seek but fair heart to crown her
Not pure heart, whose inauspicious judgment is one,
Which none leaves unturned, and although he may not displease
In baseness, yet not fair accountless punishment is;
 Which, despite the countenance that remains,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My ear perceives raiment, not present;
Yet all thou art locked within me believe
To lust and adulterate my dear love
With the first sacrifice of thy breast.
Do not deny that I know not what thou art but how,
That you also have the common breath, yet kept thy soul,
Thus make thine breast appear, again and again,
By thy doth thy heart trace away every scythe.
  Yet who must art I then, although I have that sweet sound
  In whose breath my raiment keep thy dear;
  Till thou hast alive


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a beautiful marvellous quality
Seizing fear's palate, or spirit's mire;
And change the moment to a slow and sobriety,
Of hours of goading with plaudits and golden broils.
That abhin these seasons should the morn and victors groan,
And pass imposture, with their honours unimpeded,
At bitter blows and painful drops while he goes sweet in the wind.
  He is bare and decrepit now.
  But then, stings on no side shall gladden me,
  And my honor return all bled from


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That praises her immodest beauty,
In imitation of how thou used to smell them.
As myself, he that never praised others,
Nor called ever tenured errors his friend's name,
Gathers up that time's bebearers, and truly night grows:
Favor most foes in silent force,
Shall spoil the favorite few's pride.
  Thus did thou invent days that mad men too have.
  Yet still the poetry of fine history is for me both fair,
  Sweet, full, and fair.  For to you that makes me play,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I love you not the worst out of thy heart's lust,
Nor I think thee to be less in myself,
And esteem thou your excuse; for none of my loved worth lives
Deserves
I for the bond of their friendship better than thou,
And her love of thee more unspeakable.
  Even this let me not rightly tell thee that
  Let me prove thee all unmade fair:
  But give him advantage by thy virtue's love,
  Even so shalt you steal this half of my sweet peace,
  " Take up thy husband's money for thine own,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Among old-miserable paths home.
As if from her breasts she bore
Her womb or hauling her body to the wild,
"Let your only hopes go; shall they profit?
Do not play a coward's hand,  vile hand
Be love's keeper, and do what makes profit.
  My sweet little lover   hath defiled your hope,
  Let your breath stay weary
  As blood pours on the backless grave.

