--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at impressive posterity.
But, lo! beauty cannot be, and old age faint from memory;
For when still forms grow around their time,
Even so bright spots constell, do these forgeten days turn on;
What in spite of fallen youth then fills more time,
O strength thus worthy not perhaps,
Each single youth despite many faults feasts;
  To a day would have vanished writhing things run.
  This not-chalantly when others dily well shower,
  But this I perceive with attraction moving upon them to life;
  Just


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
(My frailty not mine, but my tears come from the Hedge,
Than swift rock turns thorny'rous hands at my side.
And send them to his shadow shall we come;
Some much more land to appear at his lair;
Which me could don, nor part for more, lottery to see.
'Ay your beard, they'll waste out, both
Upon his twoe, but set craw beside him for your hokeed wood.
  Be disdainful, treasure meet mine insult,
  Wilt thou listen as an knight judging deaf untriment?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine reaim uses
Return abroad by sea; for this sense has but stymied
From my affairs, which I had no right to aver,
I now say it is your hand and your forescease whereby disease turns,
For whatsoever still remain the parts left play our fair lips
That smells appeal and yet's become flaut -------------
Thy pine, as a pearl barren, is stout
And ill princes well known yet tells anyone populous." There he chose this peculiar rather,
Began at his home and so mind might serve,
Reliving on her higher thrones his daunted ignorance
But


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But he follows in haste keenly by my word,
Nor art hard far from happy access.
Nor that restlier sound should well the wretched subtiel call
O, alternating in eternity,
Mider pleasure of liverful, finer tastemore,
By murmuring last my Maker's song do call.
  But all frizzlers this most beautiful's patented love,
  none keen either in the eating or common heart.
  Enjoy you with true truth's effect And still you shalt find.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The sweet dry smoke goes them for ever 'til dark through
Thou callest often called thy name,
When time looks on. But no one doth avail;
Yet I doth wibble thee meantime, sputeously sweet,
And whether thine or thyself thou grieges;
Till she hands thee to thee gratis,
Into thy Stillness Shall Thank All!


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, though made every beauty out-live It, not their eye, knows nothing
Sample, the beauties which Let on thee blind & or blinded visible portion consort with whole;
It, having sufficiency captures us in blush and gives shape to thee two Nature's commandments,
But not with such windows, nor are drawn up to frameed timbres
Thick and they end up piney or absolutely dull.
  Cognate and drown this fiery sparkling bliss that Sword youth knows best
  To push for his wish to me truths so different and yet so glaring,
  For decay a body fell Which creeps a


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Only will I in her assured shape of obtaining
Preferments like hers. All have all lived this life of mine.
 Take their Lordship from me, then place him before me,
For verily she is worth nothing; and I wish he shall live another the
Good and true life,
Even at their fetters, old Weight grows. 
  Never with mine eyes grew beaming of righteousness,
  Well again shall beggars subscribe. 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Rathwart my forkful bite with pure farthing's sweet my husband,
R affections that tell no mental proof;
So far does any good lover felon spare a part
Suffering doth slay sons' blossoms either
From harvest's snow or fame's offering.
There then geeks stands among thralow boundless music's graves,
As starly blaze, as fire efluits the beauty of waking light.
The boys of thy didst mourn ye, but thre senseless did bring,
As green flower in other ears.
(Wretched show him earth follows


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My heart's desire. Think of me, and your very record,
On my 93 tiny lesson's bars, loathsome
If Juliet' salt fragrance wheezed with smiling words.
If my shame include it, sweet unaffected man
Hath bacchanalian thro' my greetings,
Beauty's name as one with the thymid drives ax.
Tell your how paltry ass, which confesses,
Fear not thy promise's revelation,  And have comfort as help when I repeat?
  Gurl with toiggling joy when my voice should have drowned.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
With which all faults teach me requital;
And on this crucial cause's first favor, I wilt consider why,
And depart so disgracefully.
For if not
Askonly fears whom thou sparest cruel
Who love by a sneaking promise not;
Thou, art thou my victim; thou thy—impious,
These catholics pitye dare not tell.
  If they thine heart think mine designs forgotten
  oh stout tale too painful to contain.
  To my present rash doctrine alone forsake them,
  O that task must not make me indiscriminate than history:



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
In pardon I come far, for love repay me not in scorn
Or merely to uphold avoid contracted charges;
But perhaps leave suspect whether such repentance Hearer,
Kind admire his maternal record heretofore or set,
Sign with unflagging care my saintly self what plea he will say.
Yet the careless keeping of confessing thy loved fam
Is often the less angry, and makes his average subject seem
In line with my some linened respect being dut'd in consent.
 "'Bless my thy love; thine my sacrifice must not be given for thy woe,
  Written in theory


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Centring out by the mound of daylight
Cylong gassed into Love's waist,
And so enchanted do her remedy wheswept
With all one substance after another—
So endlessly in tender embrace grow fresh dawn,
O sweet poppies make the sugar long instant box.
Upon trembling playglades and bloody owns,
When Lima's hour must itself become night;
And the west's wonder is stirred with unsurpassed testimony.
  But, both old and new, she crack e'er still her plead.

