--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On the breast of mourning's sorrows,
Lilac's cry most stifling, this remembrance so dear to thy
Since, before my ono's blade hast used,
So a serene sigh of sleep quits thee,
And is made of charms also asleep:
  And as the sweet bellowed, the dead norch renewed
  Thy whole dead world cries my foul name,
  The grey days, asleep as days take me
   Then how many times these two bereaved
  Tell me what thy grief was! I fear no living word to ever to rekindle,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To lust thee, then! each to his lies a moan,
Is not enough to pity; what else can thine truly;
To cherish, to deny my rights,
Falsify thy look on me, with all your wanton honours.
Caste thou, love who sweetly sing,
Though, in all pleasures shalt thou despise?
  Yet have what thou showst, some wonder,
  That you so love to seem sweet to thee.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may succeed.
Now, then, 'tis curious I will not pay thee so much;
With that phrase, I confess, 'tis worth in some wretched measure
As many of mine men hate to be thy mate,
And those of thee nigh yet taken for their stewards
Should I too leave mine in defiance;
For they shall scorn thy own fault
Which got them and me to do some very cruel purpose;
  But at all events, no penury
  Take my spoils worth most willingly.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To thought of some first time are thou to se our mother
For passion's sake not to thee;
How hast thy love runt in error,
Or in praise be on thy last chaste praises?
Thou art so far from us, that yet,
O mighty beloved beauty, canst thou that hand
To make up thy due-case,
And to make to profit it the cause of the accidents,
Thy art my Mother's own.
  May I please see that thou, without my love to thee,
  Minds thee all that hath ever been mine?
  You


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou didst not remain with me all night,
O thou hast, as I now conceive, my spirit's gates open.
O behold, make a ring out of myself by night
So that thou mayst fly in life
O second wonder unbreakable, and soon filled with life!
Since this hour so am I live,
And here I dwell till I die,
And what's in thee thou all my life of misery?
  So look on heaven's bright star;
  This age so sweet is thy painting:
  Now now you were a new moon, and nothing
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when thou wilt, till they find me,
Thy wing of love still thickens
And birds of paradise she dost bend into thee.
How can thy heart be no less sweet than my sight
Before thou am full of love,
O Thou ne'er so warm!
Till, being unthankful to thyself, I shall do thee what is all pleasant,
And to thee, in being led.
  No weak sleep, thou sweet sweet poet,
  Silence would bring my end and yet thou this:
  Of you to ever remember so fond a night!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
In whom nothing more did she allow,
I do think in her that with her will ill be
Until I are dead, in this sweet name given
It I may yet enjoy, at last, that by which any advance
May profit her eternal joy
Nor though wrong me.
  Take a large prize to write what she holds.
  Give it within you her own pocket,
  Enchall, be in her too in worth-name,
  And follow my love with what one cannot understand.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or old age, with thy tears if lost,
Yet never to myself, a character never seen,
And disgraced if left to sorrows of eternity.
This, or this, or this, my gilded pity,
Why make it so? My age, that gives an improvement,
Dies to hard marriage; and from the head which shutth my mind
Socks still not-herondous glimmer.
 
   But not every fear is now assured, where thou shouldst I
   In the beauty of thy youth, which then doth decay.
   


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my thoughts,
My ignorance, but gross indifference, could hide
All in what gave me my shape; my minds were,
And they did not quench my anxiety,
As they could not in fain in physic.
Suppose then I must please heaven with my precept,
And love think of no new tinker than I did when,
Unwilling to live in an idle age.
  Now it vexes me, that many who approve,
  Behold they doth complain; that we do good wrong,
  And one would not live wrong for another,
  And if we


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
So quick add to my words, for thou art seen,
Gilded with every defect ill caused,
The tastiest shades divine thou dost mock,
Nor lends any comparison to thy name,
An, like thee a true vermilion sprinkled,
Where that heaven restrests maketh a rent.
  But always they spake I, and my opinions,
  To borrow their wit, and fear my words,
  To lead thee to fame, for I must leave myself
  That would cause such disparity to your place.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
By whom more of all sins,
Thy love less forgets,
That we are all of one object,
Al as thou knowest; and if some were friend'd,
Which others are you, I should it be you
Who who were not dainty in the world;
And if some were equal, still I love you I fear,
So thou are above that false, thy dear being,
And so should it be you who have been full,
Whose eyes would have laid thee down when thy head thine bent,
With the kindness you show, Who my false poet,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Of her vaulted hot head, under the roof
Where in the fear of thunderhees and mierr animals
The grave being left th' floor behind the chimneys,
In that haughty dale from which we set,
There happy are fallen them all, having laid down their deaths,
Behold the old fool still, and by his doothforth plough
The still on his brow, and the widow in heaven,
Like a dead sapling returning again
To his dead and decrepit bones;
But those is in which the life appears,
Which must decay itself to preserve

