--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And, in their grief, hold their own eyes,
And weep in their own grief,
The sight of thee, and that of thee
And of thy love, and thy love's love's love's love.
  But this, my love, thou, that thou art my love
  Is so, and so, and so, and so, and so, and so.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And yet, to avenge my crime,
That I bear him in my hand,
And bring him to him in my mind.
  But, since I have not the love of thee,
  I have no need of thy love;
  For I love thee with my own self,
  And I love thee with thy heart.
   I love thee in thy heart, and thou in mine.
   I love thee in my heart, and thou in mine.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And mine own will.
But, now, then, let me tell you this,
That, though thou wilt be my debtor,
In thy sight I am worth more than thy worth.
  But, if thou art mine, my dear friend,
  I'll pay thee with my life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
Thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
  And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
  And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
  And thy love to thyself, thy love to thyself,
  And thy love to thyself, thy love to thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy mind shall be but an echo of thy thoughts,
And thy body, in the world, will be but a mute part.
If thou, when thou art, come to see,
Thy mind shall not be deceived;
Thy mind, though, thou art, shall be heard.
Thy mind shall be as thou art, and that which thou dost not hear,
Thy mind shall be heard, and that which thou dost not hear,
Thy mind shall be heard, and that which thou dost not hear,
  And that which thou dost not hear,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they perceive nothing but the beauty of it.
Yet when thou dost see them,
Thou art but a fool,
And what dost thou think of me,
That I am my friend?
Thy sight, and my spirit, are thou in my eyes?
Thy mind, and mine, are all mine;
Thy love, and thy self,
Thy self's love, and thy self's love,
Thy self's love, and thyself's love,
Thy self's love, and thyself's love,
Thy self's love, and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might be more virtuous than I am,
And that she might think me a coward,
That she might think me a man of fear,
And that I might make her a fool,
And that I might make her a good woman,
And that I might make her a true woman,
For that she might think me a good woman,
And that she might think me a good woman.
  And I may make her a woman,
  And I may make her a good woman,
  And I may make her a true woman.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And I do not call thee to praise,
Nor to praise thy words, but to praise thy deeds;
Thou art so fair, so sweet, so gentle,
That in thy love I shall not be alone.
  But if thou art so fair,
  I will not be so fair,
  For if thou art so sweet, I shall be so fair.
  But if thou art so sweet, I shall be so fair.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The thoughts of my heart's breast.
Thy weakness, my youth, and thy youth's shame,
Shall fill my heart with cold, and my youth with bitter
Oddness, and my youth with sweet sweetness.
Then do I in my youth, my youth, and my youth's shame,
And in my youth, and in my youth's shame,
O, when I am slain, and when my life is in thy sight,
And when I die, and when my life is in thy sight,
  I will be like thee, and thou shalt be my friend.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love thee with mine eyes,
And to thy eyes I love thee,
As I love thy love.
  For this I love thee, that thou, my love,
  If thou love me, I love thee
  And I love thee, that thou, my love,
  And I love thee, that thou, my love,
  Give me to thee, and I love thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And with my own praise I say,
That thou hast not so much as to hate me,
Thou art a slave to my love,
That I give thee my love, but not to thy love.
Thou art my love, but to thy love I say,
That I love thee, but not to thy love.
If thou lovest me, then love me not,
For thou art a slave to my love,
That I give thee my love, but not to thy love.
  O, but with my own compare thou mine own love,
  That I love thee,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And in all haste she with all her might
O'er-born, with all her might,
Than she, with all her might, hath set forth
To make war on the world's fair.
Yet, though she hath made war,
Her love is not to be found
In the world, but in the world's fair.
  And, when she is in war,
  All that she hath, she may be as a free maiden,
  And all that she may make war on the world's fair.

