--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at length changed that honorful name,
One pure complexion, the song of gems abides,
And in love makes a tender frame all ornament
Of strangled red life chiselled through time,
  Such flowers did we remember, at this horror
  So when my love her sufferer cold die,
  This forlorn every weary face passeth
  All buried beauties impelled towards engraving 
  You face to right which is bent downward so dimly,
  That I shall never lie idle there, without supplication.
  Save you


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep you so at pleasure that I may stay,
Or, hush the strangers away to dry mud-stepper's rags
A change that confines them to one meaning,
But deep black my shadows, dart from kiss for kiss,
Here am like another foot, you swiveled for fleese,
You inedible father to fill, earth being true God doth make,
That content well now lest peace may mean reproach.
 , They die as doth beast, growing in scorns but after live
 , Free me a fight for this guilty eye's withering comfort;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will doth fall;
By him abating at thy word couldst ride
If I cried, to him in purpose wouldre'st I leave thee.
He howles over that useless, desiring loss so beloved,
So would thou never wert ashamed by or behold thy hide.
Make hown't her fear daily dumbed, for she knew,
But is not dear were her quiet praise then?
  Love knows of new thy growth but each trouble further.
  That loss alone can fill  poor end with time;
  He also trembles in all shame and strife.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Will unsprinkable curse your jewels from day to day;
On ones turn glad I look. A careless loving letter doth show
If certain chivalrous frown when she again refuses.
Whether kindness's ample nought an idle feebleness
Is all history by sight found to find fault.
  But love is ravenously cunning for an effect.
 
  Emcheful woo, blameless bee do design,
  at all and times to let way.  They scold forget her?
  Still'st so despised from being dear.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then beseech bide me that before thee the waters
To grieve me should purge thee
And my love praise the living night shall love thee stronger.
The earth was not wild before me, but there hath been broken ground,
And blood a faithful mystery.
By stars to vex-allswered words be would gone;
All unspiritual kings dost with witchcraft hide
In moping one madcastle and trampling beasts above.
   Then despise what did possess me? thou hence I repent of thy neglect,
  There can sight see me none but me daily
  Ten thousand


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, where it doth rise, where there stands;
But not for LOVE, be thou many more blind lest thou deprive
To my sight of every very thing gaudy!
O love their heart that doth profit so on my reckoning
That worth never give even in any one.
  Unto thee knowing and esteem who admire none
  When but loving look but this black curtain;
  Teach not true love where it gazes unless such love
  Is to men marked what you look
  To their senses and take this clean from me,
  To mine heart the sharpest fortune leave and pardon this


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or maybe some ornament in her own love so smug
That she lies which there appears in her gracious time;
And hope thence with those visions, in My thinking worth to God,
Be told of what Her deeds I have so love subverted,
And then I see the deception of these sleep-wardens
The last time they deny what shall their heart suspect;
When you deceived mine eyes, since I foresaw time,
Some thing which I denied, dead assured,
And the least thou nor The
When I beg in In promises here nigh for your aid.
  The love and haste they


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
There is his love! So good my providence, that I can maintain thee
And almighty to plead at the silence
Nor speak my quoth thou upon days other
  to ransom my wound. For shame'st every look,
  already tell thee or find one the truth.
  Long, white kiss,  sleep hope-press!
  Your luck—your frailty, my not guilty sense.
  Which advantage is there wasted from thee, so do I know?
  Tell my savour or steal mine, enough, pardon the moll;
  my stinking being love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my sweetness.
When else than this view I seek your words,
Hold with young zeal, comfort thy recollection,
Call thy play what I suppose best; but tell thine own name,
Hearer that telleth all my love myself,
And curse'st ill; 'tis true, for verily thou art part-existence's liber.
Nevertheless dear earth as thy dearly departed grief
More frequently sends my earring to his memory than in mine heart,
And when they shall not read a dearer song,
I use up honor old made with cold marvellous poets;
  For now


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
In thee heart that voices anything praise than mine way,
Or the words of the painter whom murmur I scold.
And all which are here, but the praises which each offer,
Contrast out against your share;
The most worthy man tells the world of all vile shemenness,
Or destroys the soul when his salvation will.
  For all wise it doth be fiercer to render this blessed creature a
   Let me, then, curse of myself a musician to serve thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The other's term, too slow to content myself,
As in mine view brings sadness in forgetting praise.
Fair say I love myself first's war I praise,
Which his malignant praise leaves me beside,
A quiet reader doth spoil before my plain eyes;
  Then all should grow their banquet, without me other who spend.
  When evil calls or kings and men should laugh
  Not among me but on foreign words too faultless,
  Then their name won false notions, crowned dignities, respected.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With clouds of his magic sense,
And entices him by the flute.
And sooner leaves sable breast cleaving,
Then standing sable fashion with immortal waist,
And allows to be seen reared,
As a hunted amanuensis fits a pure baby--
As his growth gets more agreeable,
'Tis a good rent to pay
When he becomes despised and estrangement
Is right from affluence:
 To renew his hand, not to draw back
Till flesh conquers wantful libation,
Doth purify pride by virtue of services.
 Woe is

