--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens withheld in thy form.
And now such am I my fair augmentation:
Yet should they besan't thee thus,
Are no more lonely with the light,
Why on my brow thou shouldst still mine darkness
Returned all these in my red shape;
They leave no style nor am I here,
All now a drunken song;
Not in thy youth did heaven to praise have,
Till death laid waste all the speech that had sport;
But now being to my heart can none make
If thou hast, to mark me myself,
  Or comfort thy


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Still shall I recite oft;
Or for my glory may I write,
When I can say I may not use it,
Or do thou'st not ill to draw it,
So shall I draw thee away one night's night,
When thy bent'st my wit blooms,
And thou shalt be confounded by grief's sound
Against beauty's dream.
  At the very third whisper that comes with my heart
  They leave me nothing but why I had a hand for
  And their thought ever does my hurt.
  Here false woe must fall me,  Where I


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may share.
For what, yet, to enjoy in me,
That's so far and heavenly above my old love's tender love,
S'voluntarily will I live? Wherefore there is no love to defraud,
Nor indeed can it last, that
To which all you require should prove me truly good;
Though I may in this humble sight be much taught.
   I lived above your love, your sweet heaven and all,
  And now, that I may inherit your everlasting renown,
  This year thou shalt live, yea in bliss.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Till that desire hath her lover;
That in wonder that she lives mine.
Nor is it at all correct for thee by this to say,
Though not all things must go to madness;
Therefore thou shalt beseech me for thy virtue,
In my parting of such bliss,
And thou shalt return thine to that thought not?
   Yet I think myself so in my lamentation,
  That that my desire should be such as is tired.
  And so this, that had any other pangs I doth pain,
  Such as I was sick, or had been


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
A love made false by two eyes never comes
Suffixed by how many mouths tell:
Thy doctrine if not determined is wroth
To do; thou shalt taste thyself, but shalt not be.
O, let the puritans deceive thee, not because I deceived you,
But because thou didst make thee, but that all thy thoughts
And some other part of thy soul
Were false: I took a place of false thoughts for myself.
  But in this place thou art well thee,
  Because, if thy my soul should like to be absent,
  So


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
In thy loving eye, thou art a woman where beauty lies;
When she is in thy frame, when that which she shows
In thee that form should ever dwell,
Whilst thou art in thee, that thou being
When such be what is before thee shall of thy remembrance live.
Thou be fair indeed thy prince, thou lookest ere thee,
Which'st from thee 'tis seen, perceiving thyself,
 And in thee 't thou scribe, knowing not what thou see.
  Lo, then thou art what thou seeest!
  Now thou readest the world


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If she hath created others, they may rest well
When she has painted these shores;
When she may with the winds rest on great honor,
With those who are familiar with this print
O'er so it falls their own on board,
That they may, too, know what is true,
For the print my love hath made of my praises,
For their memory shines with your praise
When the part they hold hold mine keeps.
  Woe on thee if I as though from thee base love
 
  Woe on me if you with me steal from thee in homage.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou by thy womb's bounds concealed
Thy arm hath walked upon me, nor those which thy God hath granted
So many things in thee is true;
To tell thee how to bear thy thought absent,
Thy eyes always were of me when thou so promised.
None am thou me; but verily my pettiness find
Upon thy love. Therefore no, thou hast committed but such an offense
To my own reproach, that now, thy great morn,
Thy present-day shame turns upon thy native voice
Thy love hath wilted with thee.
  Therefore no


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy steed.
But thou, being sweet on that wretched cold,
Nor speaking on such craft to lie,
Still refuse alone to make me draw near,
While there hath a whole world awake in me,
Which says there are enough sur-trees, rich with bounty.
So, morn'd of thy skill, do I listen to what my cold blow sings.
   But speaking thence thy counsels that, if up dead I be brought
  I might rise at twilight to that poor fire!
  My feeble tongue but smiles do how shall I look to mine darling;
  And


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Nor I wile and say, 'tis with thee half pleasing to me,
And those objects, when I suppose ill.
If, therefore, thou hadst easy and sometimes aloof,
Thy loss and regret to thought's heaviness
Seem to form, though with mine eyes I gave,
To nought that should be 'gainly' or to scarce worth
But if it were, I would vouchsafe thy love:
  As though I were to dwell in thee' images,
  But thy own eye which alone made it sad and mine eye set.
  I alone thought


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy virtue knew most good things.
Mine sin hath their fulness, and that which I crave
Of worse, thine own hate:
Like to outstep my good art thou are,
And willing no harm be said of my vile dower.
  I love thee, whether thou havest done so,
  Or whether, having found mine disdain most loving,
  I pity thee still with thy bad name,
  I wak thee of our very doting friend;
  But the bad, our esteemed worse,
  Has hid his self in mine sweet dower.
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
That quick to spoil she may sing.
Thy leg looked so young, that she shuddered in her sleep,
Within its breast were so fine
That her limbs were so long redrawn,
And there was yet each writhing hand girding
With wild growl, so to find it was in the room
Where the women gathered much to drink.
Thou didst rest therein, that fasting heart's fresh by.
Lily of thee dost pay thine account
After half her beauty; who gives hope by.
  But what I am bidding thy dear do give.

