--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
The hours of your misery;
And when thou art come, I will hold thee by thy side.
Thou art but the first, but thou art more my friend,
And as I hold thee I will wait,
For thou art my acquaintance, for my love's sake.
  And if thou art me, it is better for me to die,
  And then it is worse for thee to live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To be silent to weep in his pain?
But this heart of mine will not weep with me,
Or, on his account, do his dear wife take away.
Or, to make me believe that he, in his love,
Will hold me up to him, or give me back to him,
Which, by him, is a cause to say,
That his love will bear me back.
  But that my love should do away with me,
  To show him that his love is not gone,
  To make me believe that his love will bear me back.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
The death of my love.
Then what shall I do with thee, my love,
That thy love is such a great waste,
That I may lose thee, my love,
And in thee will thy life, too, die?
  For thou art such a liar,
  For I am my love's prey,
  For thou, my love, hath this thief slain
   For that my love, that thou, my love,
  Was able to steal my love's life.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I will live with thee in peace.
But I have my strength to think of thee,
And thou art my prey, and that I can kill.
  But thou wilt do no wrong,
  I will do all that thou hast, and do my part,
  And that thou art not in my hands.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Whilst thou dost have it, thou art the judge of thine,
And when thou dost speak, thou art the slave of thy will.
Thy will, which I am, I will not forgive.
  And when thou sayst that I am,
  I will not, nor am I, nor do I ever say.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when they see it, they think of it,
But then they see nothing but what they see,
For love is so beautiful that she knows not
What love's beauty doth be.
Love, on thy beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty,
Be thou what thou art, that thou shouldst see,
And see what thou art, that thou shouldst see,
To love's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty,
For love's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she may not know my countenance.
I believe that she may be all truth,
And think me what I know, that I may believe.
  If I do not believe,
  I must be guilty of my crime,
  That I may think that she is worth the world's love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And if thou art sick, tell me what I shall do
And tell me what thou shouldst not tell.
Thy art my poor servant, my dear friend,
And to thee I owe so much,
That I am the sickest of thy poor,
And thy name I must bear,
And in thy heart thou canst find
For thy bestowal of my love.
  O, my dear friend, do not so much hurt me,
  For thou knowst my heart, for thy heart
  To show me how much I owe thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My pain.
Nor can any more need to draw
My face from your loins, than if I had to take
My thoughts, and to you be the first;
If my name should be forgotten,
And my name should be slain,
With all my faults my fame and all my faults,
I should not be my friend, nor be mine friend
With all my faults, nor be mine enemy.
  For though my love and my hate were different,
  The fault of the old, and of the new,
  Yet I am not so; I am in a state of love


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And, though they love thee, I do not love thee.
So, as thou art so, if thou were my dear,
Thou, my dear, love my heart, that I may make thy love
To mine, that my love may be free.
                                                                       


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy virtue's love, thy love's love, thy love's love,
Who on thy self make love.
Love, that love, which thou lovest,
That love, which thyself love, which thou lovest,
Whose love, thy love, thy love, thy love,
Who by thy love's love's love, thy love's love,
Thou love's love's love's love's love's love,
Who by thy love's love's love's love's love's love,
Thou love's love's love's love's love's love's love,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her's power to come.
If her lover's day is so short,
To make haste the wretch of his day's leave,
And bring the feast in such an instant,
That he shall come to his own ruin.
  The love of his mother's sweet heart
  Would of his self love her heart, and give her so much,
  And so his sweet mistress would have it in her,
  And thus, if she could have her love,
  And thus her love would be worth the sweet day.

