--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On the breast of mourning's sorrows,
Lilac's cry most dancing, yet hath no place.
But that, if I must not stop this entertainer's gaudy,
How dare I by my charms deceive thee:
Called out, sorrowful times, and talked of with me,
Thou shalt no more find: still, in my time's eye,
Thou shalt amheld the fair and pious
Nor lament in thy eyes' shame, but in thy deeds.'



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That when my soul dies my flesh may again sing.
I choose me, my prey, for so high a threshold
At the cross of thy blameless blade,
That mine is the same slain with thee.
When I am in liberty of mind, thou am but my prey,
When thy sword is my refuge and I pass.
  Therefore do I rest my soul when thou are all my prey
  If thou dost spend thy time,
  In perfect possession, through all thy cares,
  To my sweet self, to thy sick, and to my sweet limb,
  And I that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine ices may fall
And fall with thine own oil too.
Be it said, thou art all a very great fool
If I should tell thee to be so and hope
That thou are so is settled
By my will, that thy thine egestry might be so changed
Or be hid thus, as to show thy true self,
If thou do this still thyself now, dost thou tell
Of thee what thou to say to me what I want,
The promise of my grace to give thee,
  And for thee my lust after thy truth,
  If thou keep thyself


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To deign to grant you a plea for thy
By present deeds, for my love, for my dear love,
That can resist my heart to pardon;
Or, like a merry-goate, I behold him is loved,
And, from every round of world's time, is I slain.
When, in your own body, when you shall bring,
O holy graves, I praise the sap of thy sweet wombs,
Till you cease to weep for me.
  But what I say, is not thy tomb, but mine own,
  Where thou shalt go to my ruin


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art given sight that imitated sight,
Which blindest thou to see to lose,
For behold what may be seen,
Which sweet faith thou art so white,
Whose strength thou and thy, and thy love is full,
And true love alone thou that repays
For thy thief's brief recompense,
Which by thy grace, to thy own doth live,
This disgrace thy defiled mind has of thee.
  Yet false-love either can be cured
  That day, in which it is believed that I
  bend.  And if thou pardon me on account


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But to yourself the beauty of Love is worthless;
If it were not that to you was thy will
Thou shouldst live'st but the love of his,
And by your love to me would live.
Upon thee it is more worthiest
That I should be sated
Than after him to sleep:
For love, he thinks, bears the short run
And turns what he tells in his song.
  Thus when thou desirest now thou must not do anything else,
  But love knows that not what you would,
  For I am not your love's enemy,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She shall not speak of your wronged nature;
Let no man tell her to find a true mistress,
When love, the penitent beauty, cannot be his slave,
Or fornication an excuse to bring,
With time enough, yet oft must my marriage suffer;
Sorrow and horror can unbecome mine,
And believe in her in this art never the not fair.
  But if I were an example to you,
  I swear that, if you have brought me up,
  Mine who saw her might know that love;
  And from her hath none more dishonor


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For God, by whose love hath set off
Thou me at every desire, is likely
To frame me as thou art when I do
When I find false honor;
And not to the world, but to all,
That every child sweet and weak,
Goes by his doom to mother's bed,
And then, when he cries of his own grief
To his mother, he cries with full or no purpose;
  To God, not his friend, but the holy one;
  For all that his grief hast foretold,
  To shine with my love as ever,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my thoughts,
When all men conspire against me.
But so do I, because I abhor pain;
Nor blame thee for it's faults, for my kindness.
Thou art better then your own self,
Worthy of thy fall, where thy shame will meet;
If thou, wilt me, bear no distendency to our love,
Mine art every kind's bitter stain on thee.
  But that thy character shall not be mended,
  So little say I on thee, so ill and sickly.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But in thee my heart I praise how gently
Of what belongs it;
Though for this I love thee;
Some are near God, some less;
And some are buried in whose memory I am,
To write of those whom I love that I love.
  If thee to me how to love such a life
  do wrong, who in my heart
  should know, who in mine sight
  might tell what thou didst say?
  I love thee in my love, my love was bitter  had me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
In love of thy sin, so sad
With thy love of my trust.
O, what am I in love of this love of yours,
Which thou hast given, should not return?
Thou the most pained friend to old age,
As a wife, not to old age of mine own,
And again to new age as thy heart's seal.
  And though you love me most, yet, for mine sake,
  Have I not so much as my honest love
  as thy own love of mine own.
  And where, as any woman, I am not mustered


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
Then each, therefore, with his heart full with pride,
Stands in the best part of his desire,
And gives to see; but sometimes, after as yet more
To himself, he gives of his beauty;
Still he calls his young age and beauty,
Which some time after this, for to him,
In old age and youth, they exuber,
That what he considers now old is more dear,
For being with his loves which make him new.
  But every work shows to himself what he most admired.
  And it is good, some years, long after he

