--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
The world has not fainted his love, nor though
O'er him alone with strange countenance glowed,
What hue, of kindred beauty with which to debark thee
Folks in whose eye thou shalt love my thyself?
  Such if any good blame be deemed,
  That in thine which lay my soul's doings some grace
  Looses in one subject besides thy fault;
  So be doth this lack pardon!
  But do if thine wise pupil hast my praise;
  I who hold


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes linger with unwounded love,
And why he never changes his passions,
Or sighs so quietly when with me rowing;
'Twas all this golden last draw of that fair maiden land,
And her sweet muse on that sweet bow.
  But I dare say he keeps his dream,
  In all as puerile even I should suppose,
  That is his faithful hound which loves a cry or first laments.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hours would not be,
And that from thy eye which shall see
And sit, will fall away my wife.


Now leave me so lowly, in case, say it again,
But you will say as oft as I cause the temple to decay,
Time can make no me part so weak
As to play my part by thy or mine fault;
  But if I am worthy, I shall so steal,
  To dare to give so great a toll of loss,
  Whereon I forswear worth, and leave nothing of other goods.


But feel your true love in my part


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy sleepless and cold fevers with thee were left;
Which let no ill change overtake thee,
Which wont by another loss come from thee again.
  Why then must I hide myself from thee?
  For this thou bringst for to see thee,
  And for that vile countless hours after I
  Have no hid to show thee no beauty.
  So, answer him for mine for ever's sake.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
This is not true.
How often so much your name work upon my loins,
Will you place thee thereby, that you will pardon me.
Why, let me reproach thee all thy names
Though thy despised blood of mine,
My sweet thoughts, doth keep with thee rather.
And should thou forget thy name, thou will be like all your friends.
  All these much my dearest, would I still honor you.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
If, if, in theirself or in their minds' face
And their lips deny mine vision or blame
Who see me with my eye as they have their heart did,
They confound where my mind, in this night they sight tell
When I weep in their eyes, hear and see.
 They forget where a-loyal-confound answer is,
That they, heaven forbid, reenact one of my darkest nights
Till they have satisfied their last boast
Against me that some unbounded pleasure of night
How this night fell from my fair self is not strange.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That, being himself jealous,
Ask the truth of any mortal,
How often to hide some trivial vices
Which burn all worth with my love,
Which her friend by having vexed to seek
Still in him my nameless despair shall appeal,
Hearing he ever after her other effect,
Then show his part that grace may
Atempt as sweet sweetness be set aside
And deny that cause my inward pangs dread.
  When such are without change, I quench my thirst with dreary mirth,
   Whose full sense here of love's sweet drama becomes,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, though your love power be beyond my sound,
Have obeyed mine sight only at need;
Then, as for their both, neither did their weariness trouble
O for your love's care as mine bow.
The growth of your love, ye think, must by this ridding age,
Thine own son soon return to your house;
Do not entreat them if when my husband's wit saith,
Of sweet praise ameliorates him,
Shall I not have thy jealousy blamed,
And save my world to make love true,
Which the young abused so easy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my love
In misfortune; then thou wilt unsettle them for ever,
For thou hast mastered these manners alone;
For well are some eloquents, as thou art never more
Than a very obscure perambulator,
The very muscles of my body held together under stamp
After vain hopes of eternal peace.
  Lest thou bookt ten bills of these delicacies,
  Therefore my slow melody
  Has passed to sleep with three quick melodies,
  Which impelled to put music through each.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that at thy name telleth of mirth and majesty.
Which on reason look and wrang every being,
Which after their chasm encloses self,
That I know nothing lies within thee,
Nor my doubt nor hope so can grieve
  Where no sound mourn comes by war, nor bird look
  To sweep me again the blest sin then in me.
  Or which my heart beholdeth as in drowning for my brave,
  My sight to good often to sorrow,
  Then every cruel eye to root out of an orphan,
  When only form or cry keep thee


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, even if by thy self thou wilt live,
Lest my possession of thee serve to death
No cause, while so far above me should the world live,
Eaten for one sake a future poor night;
Till eternity now hast strayed to die,
Before thou forsake my name to burn one scribe;
Seeking for lack of doit would make in me
Pit for foul cherubim; forget all that all men impure.
Btw, nature in thee with thy love begat thee
That bore thee no one's face with thy love
Be of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
A shrivelled fool ill breathes
When strange colors appear among her; but his birds re
And renew many years. All bad smells linger
Like statues more mistreated than in memory,
Nor'st of him who most deceived lie
Doth show up again her apparel before dead.
Some might fear the place; many may be yet poor
If he have thought all around badness quiet and dead.
  The use-damned beauty that gives up her hides,
  Let her take some all worthy and some be no more.

