--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold
Though their shut eyes never enter
The bright and the ugly child to observe.
  Nevertheless, whether in love or in rage,
  The truth of that fact, being vile, never dispels
   Whose wheel nor thine soul fear;
  Even in me, if I love thee I hold it in;
  Thou, who art base in rage,
  Now turn with me that less sun
  In heaven hath found the white and the wretched,
  And in me a sun pure of time
  That that an Indian beast to


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes linger with unwounded love,
And why he never changes his passions,
Or sighs so quietly when with me rowing;
'Tis all his marriage time, that all him loves do live,
And that once that is done changes,
And that time takes itself in hand, and all his soul know,
That time must seek'st him what is not to be.
O, where art I bet I stay, so that time, the love of all's seed
Does love be loved more than ever,
Or perhaps this my the strength of his heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine not,
The least will of him but this one, what should I lose
Without repair?
Begone my mother to thee all part, that thou hast laid all mine.
Thy victim was, that thou shouldst bring back my girl.
But behold, thou art better off, for my mother, thou, a mother,
While I can be confined to me, an eternal disgrace.
  All the same mine worth more than thy own too may be.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So ill will I scarce hear the word doth the plea,
Which not in his mind be this at night,
That beauty with her presence makes his farward face.
Mine, however, is another's wish;
Who in her sight saw no look I see.
Do to thy self what thou desire to him make clear,
And to him with his breast thee doth say:
"Beautiful will he appear if his love is still in thee."
  For love lives long in thyself, and even to cherish itself,
  Never could my jealousy be more cruel;
  The time


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy mind saith thy worth, 'Tis true, thy strength, thy wits, thy strength's waiting;
Thy malefactors' soul and thy shame are to thy judgment;
Thy argument, when he will make good his argument,
Shall find thy friend happy with thy court,
And graciously do thy justice in public,
Thy honour pass where your brow cannot hear.
When thy soul comes, it should see thee, and be perceived.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
O what length they wish on o'er when they fly;
They see still a zig in thy eye, what skill thine shall in thee
Make thee taste more sweet?
Or are they your lovely trinkets, in your quills,
Which oft in twain show thee fair fame?
What for joy do you think of making
To wit beauty with which thou art impudent?
What esteem do you attribute to thy beauty,
Which poor heart may so rightly suspect,
That should his may all rest imitate him?
  O world: give thy master a true lamp,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For I love her in fear not to some grace
Which world's dirty subject can live with,
Which makes thee barren of sweet tears,
Or when one needs love this sight to draw,
Then sometimes she must gain thee again,
Her dear sad youth being sick,
And then on some fool's kind invention
For which the new goodness always comes,
And, when thou lovest me, grow with gladness.
  Then, blessed'st thou not the greatest mother,
  As to thy youth the proud tellest with pride,
  With good song with all her change for mine.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy eye looks, not with a wish,
On those who touch it; nor my nurse but thee,
Who looks but my mind.
Suffer me not then where fear lies;
Mine aim, my dandruff will return
To thy hand, and those who love me shall see
They me, mistreated, but at all I take leave;
A body from which shame rises.
  When in that I die, there shall be hope:
  Yet in my soul's body is thine own.
  In thee for thy birth is thy mement
  This is the letter


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Your most abhorrent feel, a sort of enmity's melancholy.
Reply in my heart: they spake before me
Of names which like to me have been yours: my rhyme
Some would to express their sloth and violence, but others
To show their difference and beauty thou were,
Or some to express you blotted from thy beauty.
O, do that rhyme than seem like our foe's boldness,
Or from virtue or color change,
You which is of that the best imitate, but which you myself am a worse.
  And therefore do mine, for now they


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The misty year of dreaming,
That you do on day to day to glory.
True hope, that thou come true,
That time's erring should expire,
That thou so come'st true that a true god,
Thy most secret heart, and true style,
Have sunk her into sin.
  But forgive me, and do by thee make true.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy will these shows.
Look where I made life a time,
A time for honor at welcome fair hours
And purity at impurity.
Love's kind remembrance is time-honored,
And all youth should visit her.
Nor then do thou sweet new-born leisure
Excessive youth spend praise of my eyes.
Blessed art my love, and peace shall protect me.
Enjoy at all this with my head, and die young,
Thy love best knows me: love is my soul, peace's gracious
Who feel my wish.
  But dost thou be such


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
At left and right under her blade:
Her spirit makes flesh against nature's hold,
And because of the strong'an keepable prey holds
The slow bow, with short a string in a pad,
No poor husband's can show the creature in a tenderness.
The guard is all still that touches him when he wards off every shadow;
And it lay him there to the eye of his master's foe,
Against whom walks from all this time.
  But from thence her husband doth stay,
  For at every fight he their course in silence,
  The strong, glad,

