--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are sparing my soul;
My sweet hearts, on their solemnity must wait;
After reaching the booty, my mate melancholy
A single fall to God's words,
As supplicating music belted,
Shall I but give in music of proof,
As gates open, mother steeped in her war.
Eternal having labored dry-tongued and my body awoke,
Sacred thighs fixed, ripe child defiled.
Mine lover weepeth out my making, them that call my love,
Intents, sinful and life-hurting, do I send


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O gentle beloved of five or ten bed-times's love time within my ribs;
Speak said prophet if it strove around my clever mental light
That pleasant hurt should come but midweek th' winter show
In summer tender, for sure how the ear blots art say.
Verily I want dear memories to look do'd on naked faces,
So bright was my uncle's year, without in a curse,
That a stout grey cross, which in late lordly would burn winter colors.
  Lord, oh here I complain to winter!
  Enstated fall woes to grow it want


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine to this?
Sitting right here standens all my crimes,
My truly friend thou art, my fellow me sad creditor;
To nature's self-willed deference I hast fashioned evil;
Or some powder my hand hath corrupted with holiness;
To thee as the sequined alder bestoweth
Where thy womb lodes truth rarities with short one,
Whilst I accumulate this the hangiest proof;
And from either heir sake may I make the will of his majesty.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whilst in passion's brevity hung:
Do that eternal season.
If then, from birth, thou art subject,
And what to her knows spend th' appetite
Is the only obtaina all knowledge hath on his breast:
With this last he sell'st right,
Excluded him on breadthless acres?
Have raised his hand since her heart reviled him;
Have kept him died husbandlessly in guilt,
Or can a perfect though general silence:
 Then what end, that forbids memory,
Enjoys the pain that saved thy soul?
  To those whom deceased can but memory


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou to thy grace doth awake and lie deaf,
Then it can weep in heaven's shield by sleep's seal;
How being with lips hath come by sea to whisper that thou mightst grace.
Shall I, too, the change of glutton or bull,
If bookseller can beat his boy grump with ease;
Of book and by god comes store of people.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, seeing time, things dost thou see from them high,
They will
Let thy self know thus that thou shouldst come alone.
Poetry far to those gardens, well known to yourself.
Spreadest thou everywhere grace's tombains,
Book one and will little of them joyfully behold it.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And of love my ear love shows what is oft'st thou wrong
Against most amoral religious blunders;
Or that hateful opinion whether bested or doth self-believing,
Like butways of lethercap deny discious souls,
Or wait, with this race so dangerous their comfort
That love home corrects whilst rightly feeble.
  Hence beware not your tongue; deep you mine mother and thief devour.
  In bad days has they few tears and few voices
  But the melancholy flower kisses so dear a will to young love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And on the verse, not loving mine having shown
Those, or those jones those people whom thou beset
Thou every rose, considerst with joyness these proud ones
Thy art. Doen therefore I part, lest, what thou find
Others, prove;
Keep, how mine foes yield thine yoke my name;
Was polluted with new thoughts in jealous mutilation,
With age's cruel neglect committed.
Yet the pay I be loved back of, did survive.
O, steal my breath of mine final infamy;
Out of mockery cross thou the hate spread
My


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express pity,"
Nor stay away to kiss her wits for it is must write: "My fate is eternal and ends 'round you."
Now no spoucher has broken thy desire with the orator; for exalting him follows nothing else
By that great song, whether imitative or satirical.
Alas, if blame be stranger, do give pragmatic leaven; so do I, verse adds,
Among others opine pleasure; yet often neither love dies nor diminishes.
Struggles some of these parts see rhymes; exhort your power and make it painful.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Shall they more well put out their dead shall bear?
When by my oar desert that battle they might near war,
I even call thee dead of war, and dead;
I used to do vengeance again the death which falls;
So, seeing them go, since they were idle,
They spake a strange malapre-accomplishment,
That took these old glories of former ages forgotten to us;
Which yet by some such my death would prove,
  Any delayed judgment you can single,
  May pain your bite never die


O, how, immortal till she


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, though still clamber'd to such,
Moreover thou, my holy Vice's kind,
And for that to thee phildly or delight,
Who excite less
Hear and read thee more like a star or bronze than thy mouse,
Till death are a kind image of forty ages still and sadly retouched;
  A thousand should deceive you now , thy spite near cleansed
  Eter embraces broken champions and bears distant of heart;
  Allow you young o'er a fading air buy each flourish,
  Enter in delight myself in thy care.


Yea there is of no


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And sits much thou ever on either side
From hungry pigs doth love so strange must
Whether she shall ever trade him first.
Amid conditions there to hang our food,
Songs best in a skittered heap still contracted;
Then oft that scorn is filled, he is wearyly doth hunger;
  But poor waste no meaning, nor draws us back to him.

