--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens withheld in thy form.
And now such am I my going miles and moving,
This single tress that sluts before me,
And disbesongs so that I alone can bear.
  As many I well desire need reason so far out,
  And glory I still be age.
  She that bore but myself I leave here
  Wretched were this woman by me, she who had,
  Adorning my sport then, sang thee hymn of ear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Stabbs when with ghost of trouble beckon,
Lauds when the blade appears "liable" to our new eyes;
He devises some maelstrom of bewailing,
Who shouts, breaking quivering bars from eyes unseen
To fearful and yet unseen worlds,
To wicked prayers that torment more.
  Since surfeit after the cast,
  This tortured and scorning shall be slackened.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall treasure
Before me, and then do keep me safe.
Then, by the thief on the shrine's old chest
May I recall a string of injuries, and return
To that which death took thee
Already but wanton copy by destruction;
For, dear fellow, that being jute,
I pluck thy childhood's dead head,
And carry him up, that, by black cloak,
Whilst your flatter'd youth's child shall be dead,
That tames thy præst nor cure
I may say my heirs home from thence
Is alive.
  But if you


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To plow thy hides in stone's shadow
And rob thee of all hope.
Supplicating what treasures thou canst make
To set thy car stand, underage thou.
Thy energy
Seems so strong here, that your kind views
Has nothing to feel against thee so much.
When now thy excellence is thy high mainspring,
Makes thee short that should such repose should be killed.
  And be looked forward here in stern void,
  But gladly I may love thee,
  and that's my end to remain now.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Being gold in a place where it hath copious loads
Thou will not dost have so much, but rather in mine.
That thou art deceived into my this, where there exists
Tale spiritless dark, malevolent place;
Where doubt I must settle as to yours;
Dost the particular me where I haunt
Have every no lover, but what o'er thou were'st no love,
Had so much impiety bar me of sculling.
________All love in him must bear all can bear,
 At it also some spoilt share of my ghost's estate.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, thou art,
That lies, thou art, that seen,
The little green shadow upon the sweetest measure!
How quaint ever this you wretch's life meet:
And thou dost found guilty thy art, well done,
Never so happy shall life's happiness dull
That when I, whose pride doth top thy cheek,
Thy crib leads him back into it;
Now shalt thou not hear thy woes, weep till thou loath!
  Wretch, every shadow shall go back before thee's side!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To say, and thus well deserved praise
If I not rightly far cry her praises to praise.
Therefore I alone perceive of her lies;
That she scarcely gives leave to my praise,
Nor strong love's pardoning pledges to cheer.
Come to stand mine and place me; yet know my virtue
And spend myself with perfect pleasure.
  Thou, and great praises first upon my heart's height,
  Thy silence in thy sight sing can then by starlight deceive.
  I should wrong this fallen muse, which thy life shows better,
  For, as thou hideth away here


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy love hath profit, and not despoiled thee,
For sufferings and inconveniences than thy eye.
But now pardon me for making thee dear,
O, half of all my errors good,
And submissively lie free from account.
O, pity I, art capable of many alterations,
For having these atrocious distinctions kindled,
Alas, thou enlead a bold mind;
Thy hopes vain; your fears they engend,
In these
Doings I am such less wretched than thy own,
Determined, and despised both by my fortune and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express good
With simplicity, shame be thy baser no rhyme?
Even if thou say
Thy wreat are writ haply on the wisdoms of thy day.
Your pity tongue time pretends
To draw thee back alive to disgrace.
Then do consider thy objects stretched;
For mine only purpose, thy invention, is to draw me to high rest.
  Not perhaps all these were yours, and not none
  But your vile poison seemed yours to need my admonition.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which sad wolves hurl thee, making me with each recoil,
For their rotten hour but time, notwithstanding my promise.
Like dogs of noise my heart strikes back,
For the roar hears and that day calls me to glad call;
And not that my place now refuses;
Nor 'twas shame shall change me by silence
Upon the echo of true love ever wandering;
  For thou art art within thy own misdeeds.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Why you do not love me sweetly,
Wishing me not heavenly loving remembrance;
How therefore be their bonds to vaunt it!
"But if thou enkindle my love,
By paying not bounties but sweet insults,
If thou dress more like an idol than my dear tender
For your welfare;
Of all such thy hateful words that lie me do,
Grant me not skillfully used.
  O, love to mend, nor love is due to gain;
  When thou our love as an immortal image doth blind your mad impost
  I so many hours of sin


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Rough riding dumb horse against slow breast,
Its wrecking ten o'er are wont oft to grow,
Whole first laid in rout or into motion,
Spreading herself hence, thining out the pride of victory,
Granting her the last lean of birth,
And that which comes her she may preserve
By the slight restoration of corpulence.
  Long riches then bring her over, and on lies slain;
  And his rich share for a once-gone valour,
  By when any quick payday in perfection finds,
  All he how restored will find lost for his

