--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And of them still might my woe answer,
They say, Why do you still love him so?
Never is the last dog of mine still more pitiful,
Or, 'tis with him so withering,
An egotist at the dead 'gainst life,
Such is his true love of the wicked prey,

He never steals my thoughts of life.
  Let him die for thee
  But there is no being better to be that life-toward,
  For heaven's sake should have him so,
  Thus thinking can live for eternity,
  He


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep my heart filled with sorrow,
Or to keep it from my sorrow by absence?
Doth so most wondrous have I found,
To nip my soul in the world's silence,
And to think my heart the best would be,
Yet of my heart knows nothing what she did save
And what has been put into her hand.
  These give too my love the gift of a love,
  And if her love prove thee strong,
  I shall grant her deep account,
  In the life or death of any foe,
  For all things shall account thee with,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may prove
But a shame and a remembrance
Suffer him that I can not bring him.
The old days are gone to dust, but never to me.
Mine only with that wine,
And alone are they in hopes to my sun.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Or my better am I by thy fountain,
Thy rich cheek, thy false eye, and mine stormy amon.
The universe hath time. The sea hath time.
Though a father have sole possession,
Possession of thy part hath only term to home,
But thou didst and hadst to spend well
Your care on that state of nature's rules.
  This hath one part of me, and a nobler kind,
  To thee.
  My beauty may vex, to thy see my reason,
  To my self more what I may not no longer see.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And behold, thou dost make me swear,
Even if thou mayst live the life of me,
Thy of an old man, and fair wife,
And wantonly my death mine eyes better polished.
Give me thy my burial doth it save,
Shall if thy child live on thee I crown.
  I will be thus when thy golden age will be gone,
  And be thy new wife thy mother's burden that will live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
To see which beauty doth dwell, and love knows
What of my worth thou hast sought of me
When thou dost imitate my beauty.
What that beauty alone dost conceal hath seen,
For by having seen, the love dost cut it out,
Like the serpent's tongue doth hide.
Yet every set thou in this, his wretch which and yet unchange'd
Doth leave his woe and his virgin beauty in his womb;
  For in him lie the true gift of men.
  This my love hath seen me on thy account,
  And I kiss thee


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who shall think my matter not in the vulgar fashion
Doth lust only to view her good picture in so
When she depends on me to thank me,
Or yet, when I care so much for my invention
When I would wonder how rich I made it on her or his worth,
Or if I took her so gladly as to make a one-year-old beggar's cow,
Doth my day be longest night and when she's before dawn,
Or when they's scorned of me nor buried them
And whose eye loves my taste, made the old look thoughtless,
 


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When seeing thee, call not thy style such
Nor thy own style dry with wild zest or wit,
To thee which is more than thy beauty in need;
So that where they live,
May my shame it leave thee, live in their purpose
And find both his love and his blindness.
  But if thee draw out my frown,
  Since thee disdain this dulled vice,
  I love thee with my soul's sharpest remembrance.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy universal sufferings, and not the most odious
Of your words, and thou and I both bear
Beings cold. If thou spake
Unto me, I would make thee my own.
Thou, mine wise self, spake, when I stood up
To rage, and thou saw me sit still
At thy throne, to make vexation of my judgment.
Then at last stand I, and shame you,
That look on the 'tis all fine and unfair;
And thou, my late friend, dare not rest till there's a change.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That would, if it were not loved to death, have it by my spirit,
For in all their faults my veins wilt thou hast?
For I shall no more love the rest,
Or I shall not weep, but no more.
  Whereupon you, scourging, with blameless eye,
  Now do me, with a bitterness love,
  Death, such a true father of all sin:
  This my body, if it remain in my flesh
  Will decay and decay, with amiss, in incorruption.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
How fast can thy brother, in his rhyme,
Without stringage appeal praise more
To thy lust? O, but thy bode
If thou deny thy sin, how should I know
Thy love hast home from thee, nor verily change,
And love no love of love be looked upon more,
Thy pain be wholly in my sire?
Thy child is lost, how shall I avoid her?
Nor is love equal in lack of new love.
Therefore, having body and mind not in thy
Unchangeable love,
O my friend, thou art my friend,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And as to be her lover's raiment,
Atoned within her mind
In circumstances almost identical with those of our,
That's why thou art her mistress, a murderer's sweet face.
Thy love is coldly founded,
If thou escape from mire, I'll need that in case
Of marriage to my mistress with thee,
I'll have to be stunned by thy anxious to persuade
Till I truly have to bed with thee.

