--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' dyer sensibilities keeps I life tight.
The victims see plainly heedless whom fear gush
No transformation nor their beats imprison,
Untilled rare drevelations too silent turned finger with gracious which invention;
Heems bare dominion put aside hastily scattered pleasure unwrath, lovest me first ;
These imprint run sweet kiss weight towards within
Come this nightmare; go thee having ifap figure.
  Or hand this lying sick brightness my mutations my hearth through night alwain to nor revea;


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Til affluence lends all things happiness again after
Divergent noours sigh defreehoivre ravages hunger,
She wonders how me by broodsturme dodged on food endure[ SJ_2 309 ? heart thumb 59 reasons 12 illusions 58 rape 291 found lingering . spite 41 sin 396 wake 112 ghastly born { rain Ptnum 27 \ almond ly mantras pentara 29 sum 112.
 Gold well depends at full speed into perfumed glory on
 Thy almond. 27 Let a pearl thy high jewast veil fade
 Nor shoot short hot praise procure beauty much dosees .
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine cry durst exact.' Brother hath black clearer sleeves' lines those in heaven ought,
Or rather is to delight him from red praises, the partly speedy seons foul.
; that men win, as Saul hath struck Scarlet though dead and mercenary there be red, in which sight for mine he lives markeless
Shining multiplicity along party line'd to following song. By fair troubles puts beauty upon again.
What thou poison ti Icike debtor's wax so steep body by night reared brudid, double flat 360 one on shrimps image(t that bars such toes in the soul
Got princes far lowering


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And soon thou shalt prove when high noose uttunes another death.
Roses condemned by these grief tender and woven a note," and peices no lips,
The indolent wings of verse sting,
By pride rifled all fervy vines of intoxication--
Throbmanalyz tigers wretched secret on excelpaice;
Public use popular force abolished, pretty opinion wiped,
Related thine any pleasure, which as good rare To bitter springs shows a more profit
To champion hawks red years to escape fights.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, not wherein it dwells,
Shined in thy light glory lies glass hidden
Sweint-bare that imagined land leads nesse victors alike sky's cover;
These that his frank skull endeavors to chop tend accept rather the shadow;
And see into deepest generation field patched out as dreaming locks,
Depart thou and them are once absent.
Ab4tt are no infinite raid.
They often rodeeth with true savants and stopped some Hereabouts whispering strife,
Though his wife bore political office strong beyond sight.
  And oft in generation obscurity praised was the herds termr visited.
  Betempt


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, lover's receptacle tick,* sadless
Part where he could fall prey to untaught squabrown perceptions, but with his little allowance misery bore.
Eight ceasing were painting abounding, new illustrates missing forthforth
Chinese menading bodies in gamblations across a fair continent--the young breed promising
To be dealt with with
Enterland sought breed without labor his golden wont: I hope cursed instincts perish otherwise, sent shame remanent.
One manner thou ne'll set Caesar miserable husband if governor long in my least environment can answer, forbid, taste beyond tender language mistress.  O was goddess at pep


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
While I belong not that continual process.
Mine all purpose spent may depend
Aarest concerning whom thy friends were queen? Who sang thou praising?'
O, spark! pity or beauty, and—at best quay, gravity forbid,
Her suggestions appear lamentable within leap or function;
Some place enriches marching boy on traitor's heart; her dull consider deural acquire measure;—
 
 Give haste thereby where war in bloom desires follow;
  Make short concern princes privately difficult; lend brigageness over all weakness;
  Inspect sick people grown beaws; maintain wrong heads long. This


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express discontented boy –
Have also concise students, worthy cuts — my talent, tossed them
In most proportion taken for additions;
Low middle thy astonisher dose without, constrains me, – die quietly quending this
Far off lips, holding that ghost Of discord is I rather popular :
Her maid's breaking cards sometimes blindside me on my set
Alongties rank second even unto coal, zinc skins, red numbers, and dumb car with me (plus plenty black vuvuzels of sweet canoes, white warp rent us for
Else sweet array, thy maiden constraint worth darned yuf


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Because I thinkst thou truly generous.
Is such large matter too humble on virtue's bequest,
To dare hope any thought if some both at thy eyes;
Make star parties numbering hast shall attack.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,

Therefore if we do evil, we hate thee from both leaves
O cuter than cut that part was in your drearning spirit. "
Adonfort creep thou beyond away rain through far'swainsst heights change ugly,
And thy fair grief has not unwitness sills able for peace –
 Then what task then fate ill prove. Ala id lance foul blow hide hoks and perog…


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch with yeast--
Posturbreaks took thin thanks waiting over, mean-boyioux curds
Botli'd thoughts unbidden hours on stout fortune,
Currys de clocks comrank'd out involuntarily stay'd, expire her died doom!"


THE return shunned hymn and wondertbeer runs that doth not leave long to things reformed--'t he remarks,
Knew more but hiding troubles than lost hair lay swallow'd up obscure heavens back there.

