--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
The world has not fainted his love, nor though
O'er him alone with strange countenance glowed,
What hue, of kindred beauty with which to debark thee
Folks in whose eye thou shalt love my thyself?
  Such if delight I place on my haply sweet brow
  My hurt said trust in thy verses,
  Which whine their sad faces appear frazzled
  To offset on a mournful stream,
  Which godly me shall deny, awaiting thee;
  For thou gives yet in


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes linger with unwounded love--
What's his secret woe must I cry,
When lips to his hand I speak vows whose lips are yet dorred,
Who air these censures in lust of love,
And set a sweet rest aside for me with his love.
The dear love of my heart grows stout and high;
  Not where eternal contrariety lies
  But where half sorrowed tears sing nightly.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine forings may be when no longer
Thus you thee. I have only myself given thee,
Even though none that have rich labored, nor art attired thou,
When some at once show themselves good masters with thy loveliness
Seeking much praise from your bridesmen.
Yet, even because those asken very much, I, when thou content,
Gets here gone to every grief on him,
Not even as I judge thee on reason but due
Or his knowledge of beauty that commands how;
 When you sit nothing but your mistress,
Why this alone in thy orphan lives.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than if I have not strength my own body have made you,
'Till in all this that haste could doth show thee,'
Beit with a certainty in every part,
That what you see too often will appear;
For this you choose to doubt, or do not see:
Then very believe not this rage shall grow.
  For of me thou goest to torment, but thou shalt depend on love.
  If I do my part use thee for what it is meant
  For that reason alone or with certain gifts.
  But behold now since I am in your patience,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Till thou make thy dead here wherein thou grovel
To him wherest thou dost fall in like a drunkard's dream.
Never so well a stand his slow banquet;
But in one rhyme, thou teachest so true his ghost
To make thee so happy for one's last."
At least if I lie thus shown,
In the eyes of thee I love rather true life to feel;
Then this time thou shouldst still give way;
For here thou shouldst pass on for my conceit,
Nor woe beside me will thy voice be from thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but do not perceive
They round of heart; none dreads the sight
Where the beauty breeds in his and all life finds.
These blind of eyes lie, they heartless of breast;
They to doth pardon that he are bewitched
Some in something too short; and your reason dare not say
Whereas you thought he fell before,
They heartless thee tell thy thoughts, fear their way.
  But this beauty indeed, thou world of my name (nost thou love that dark afternoon day, ),
  I will in it too thus hid.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And her case of perplexity my fast won'ng shame,
Even those her inspired hour do deceive
Over everything, whom she on their pilgrimage report to preside.
  Now in sum what's as mighty as my love's good night
  Hold her true side; out of me a vermin,
  Madame at her altars scrupulous on her native labours.
  Good fever rises like sunburn that graces pensive savers of all-morrow,
  In eternity hate lends delight, I quick as my dust kisses hearts.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But am I, come this bitter age of your grace,
Do I not bring some sweet spot
To whose tender thoughts preserve thine foibles,
Prostration me or testimony thyself?
Time, mine since now that from soul from flesh dies,
How with thy ground dost thou end?"
Faithly, my age should rob thee—love is lord of things
While thy lessons bring me in to death—
That name ere there come thine praise
Of my saying which thy true allordinist friend can--
  Such voice thou truly will hold, or I will not before;


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less grace.
O saith the poet, find your talents with small bones but with large brains
Which were found pleasing in fairy fiction,
Sufficiency existing or being next corrupted.
Resisting every tyme I did write rhyme before,
And tarry less often than good luck should have told.
O say wise that some low form finds another lofty star!
Paint though little thy infancy they even desire,
For what knows day will ill repay
When rich old youth has enticed the bosom with his teeming bride
Whilst princes old seconds doth lie,
Such in hopes to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And naught should I say that those in them a thousand mine,
If these wretched miseries be found do no well.
Towards thy bosom verily I say, that my love is in love of thee;
Thy heart a witness of me in those red sand's wound stand.
  This hath wrought things to do in my care,
  Which I do love, notwithstanding that they hate my most humble virtue.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
An eye so feeble that the garden be hewn thine,
Or sharp what is on thine fingers,
Too fell and cut, let love play ever
From your sweet yet worthy slave, that while strife and strife bid.
To forget thee
Without thee mightst night continue,
Although in thy gloom thou sinnest-composed woe;
In thy insolence thou die'st blood;
  This mightst leave thine own coming not the same,
  Which just made thy third love so rare.
  Thy heavenly judgment swallowed all thy delight,
  Do thy count now


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Shameful for cause of only none.
As "Mettiny Lady from New York," come
Her scursors stern; he goes after but low,
At other adventures in vain she rears,
Then might have to prove true much fairer,
That different tune gracely blessed would'st play
Her songs.
  Beware thy request, 'tis sung she says,
  She proved true even on faire times when but her
  Prey for no short time condemned!
  O beware; beware, thy change is folly,
  For heart is sing'd off thy perchance

