--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And of them still mourn my thoughts,
Which, like the melancholy old age, can never return.
  Yet, with their eyes, they have been mine,
  And I see them more than their eyes.
  I see, and they, in their eyes, make me weep.
  Then, seeing, they do me homage,
  To my dear eyes, that see me their love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But to be one with him, and make my heart more tender.
So that my own heart is so weak that it cannot give,
That I am better disposed to weep for the world's sake,
And to hold in the world's shadow my love.
  I should love him with love's strength,
  And I would love him in love's love's love's hand.
  Then I would have love's sake, and would have no tears,
  For that sweet friend I would love, and his sweet love would be.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can enjoy
Thy crowns, my friend and mine own.
But that you, too, have seen,
That your hearts, your tongue, your eye,
That every creature, every sight, every feeling,
Thou shalt not, nor shalt thou in thy youth
Let him have his rest.
For, then, you are a thief,
And his eye shall be stolen.
  But in that day, that which thou art now,
  You may no longer hold the crown of thine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And am I in all thy faults,
And you my self, for my part;
When I am gone, thou hast done me all,
For, like me, thou must in my case
In a worse state to suffer me,
Thy death must my face see.
                                                                   


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, if thou art in thy true form,
Thy face is to be seen by me,
And my soul, in my shadow, is to see me.
When thou art in thy truth,
Thy spirit can hear thy words, and tell thee what I say.
If thou art in thy truth,
Thy eyes, and thy mind,
Will hear my words, and tell me what thou say.
  But thou art not in thy true form,
  For I am not in thy true form,
  And thy mind, my shadow, will not hear my words.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And tell their own sight what they see;
And when they have seen their own beauty,
They say, "My beauty is not that of you,
That thou art in this world's eyes."
When thou dost see my beauty, thou dost make them
That they may see thee with thy beauty,
And show their beauty, as thou dost show mine.
  If thou art in thy beauty, I can see thee,
  And if thou dost not show me, I can see thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, by my decease, to be a slave to my lust.
But my love is not yet with thee,
Nor my love with thee is yet thy virtue.
For, though I love thee, yet thou dost lie.
  But thou art so far away from me,
  And my love is still, still so far from thee,
  For my love is still thy virtue,
  For my love is still thy beauty,
  And I still believe thee to be my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And, if thou art not well disposed,
Take care not to make thy eye seem dull,
Or that my love's well-constructed
And thy tongue might prove more sharp.
  For my love is in thee, not with thy tongue;
  For, if thou art not well disposed,
  If thou art not well disposed,
  Take care not to be dumb, nor my tongue to seem dull.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy mind to sorrow's ill-conceived harm.
And then, when my heart hath but grown weary,
I shall have not time to mourn, nor do I mind
To hold it to myself, nor do I see
Nor sorrow's sweet mark, nor sorrow's anger,
Nor do I see a change in the state of my mind.
  But I must say, not with those words,
  But with them, that in my grief I may not forget.
  For what love, or love's goodness, or love's pain,
  I love, not with love's sake


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my love of thy name that I adore.
  And then my heart hath, in thy name,
  Gives to thee a sweet sweet voice,
  Which can sing thy praises to thy praise.
  And in thee I love thy love,
  That I can bear thy shame,
  And in thee my love can bear thee joy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That, though I live, thou dost, in thy mind,
And at least, by the power of thy body,
In the eye, show thy own worth,
Which, if I am not in thy bosom,
May not have the eye, which my own beauty,
Shall bring thee into my love.
  For, by thy sweet love, I am not lost
  Where thou hast to live, but thy own.
  If thou have this in me, my love shall love thee,
  That I may be so happy in thee,
  As I love thee to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
And flies, like a sword to slay her with
When her lute, of the first knife, thorns in hand,
In the blow, so to speak, of the last,
In the rattle, so to speak, of the old knife.
  But this, my dear, is the mark of a first man's beauty.
  So, dear, that every time, in my mother's breast,
  That which she hath in her own heart,
  I do a world's shame to her, by being made
  to be his wife.

