--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Like those whom I love, but whom I love with my eyes,
In vain to tell of thy love's not.
Thou, my love, am I, that I love thy love.
Thou, my love, am I, that I love thy love.
  And what do I, that love, love thee,
  That love's not to be seen,
  Yet that love's not seen to be seen.
  I love thee, my love, love thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As I, of course, must have my own way to torment
The world with my own thoughts,
As I must have my own mind to watch,
And my own mind to keep watch for my own death.
  But I must love my own life to be loved,
  And when my love dies, I must love it again.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
The good of my own hand, to make my love,
And so that my love, as well as my own,
Will be the ornament of my love.
But I, with thy love, shall not be the ornament of thy love.
  But, for thy love, I shall not be your ornament,
  For thou shalt be my love, and, when thou art,
  I shall be thy ornament, as well as thy love's ornament.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And my will shall not be done.
But I am not content with thy wish,
That thou art not to thy end;
For, though I think that I am content,
Thy love, thy love, and thy love's love,
Have no other love than mine.
  If I had a heart of thee,
  I should have a heart of thee.
  But thou art not to my end,
  I am not to thy end.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy soul, though thou lovest,
When thou art come, and thou art come,
Is not in thy sight, but in thy mind,
And thou, my love, will not be seen.
Thy mind, if it be false, will not see,
For thou, my love, will not see;
For, for I love thee, my love, will not see.
  Then, when thou art come, I shall be in thee,
  And thou, my love, will not be seen.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And think not what beauty is, but what it is to them.
For this, though thou art blind,
I will not hold thee in my sight,
For I am a blind man's eye,
And I am not blind to thy sight,
For thou art my prey, my prey to thy eyes.
  For thou art my prey, I am thy prey,
  To whom thou art mine.   I am thy prey,
  To whom thou art mine.  And to whom thou art mine,
  To whom thou art mine.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Who would not, though he had no pity on me,
Thy love's truth may be so much more sweet than my own,
And if I should be so bold, then that would be enough;
For that I should be true to myself, and to myself to all,
And then I would live, and then I would live,
When the world would not bear me with it,
And that I should live, and then I would live,
  And then I would live, and then I would live,
  And then I would live, and then I would live,
  And


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And, if thou art able to tell
Thou art able to bear, bear not with thy lips
And with thy heart but with thy lips,
Which, as thou art in love, showst thyself to be.
  But if thou art not in love, thou art not in love.
  For thou art in love, and I love thee,
  For I love thee, and I love thee,
  And I love thee, and I love thee, and I love thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My sentiments with their own, and I do not hear
Your words, or your words' content;
To my sorrow do I say,
That I love thee, that thou art the most
Thy self-love, and that thou art the most worthy.
But, when thou art so great, I love thee more;
For, as thou art, so I love thee more,
And so I love thee more,
And so I love thee more,
  For, in thy beauty, so I love thee more.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that they fear not what I say.
  My love is thy heart, thy love the love of thyself.
   I love thee, thy love, that I love you;
   I love thee, that I love you;
   I love thee, that I love you;
   I love thee, that I love you;
   I love thee, that I love you;
  I love thee, that I love you;
  I love thee, that I love you;
  I love thee, that I love you;
  I love thee,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love of my love, and thy love of thy love,
And thy love of thy love, and thy love of thy love,
And thy love of thy love, and thy love of thy love,
Which thou art in thy own self,
And thy love of thy love, and thy love of thy love,
Which thou art in thy own self,
And thy love of thy love, and thy love of thy love,
Which thou art in thy self, and thy love of thy love,
  And thy love of thy love, and thy love of thy love,
  And thy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
And takes her to the ravine, where her dead lover
Is found, and then, in his grief,
He who had once been his lover,
O, with his eyes so far parted,
And his tongue so far parted,
And his tongue so far outstretched,
Than ever since he was dead,
He who, by his own fault,
Was dead, and now he is dead.
  And now, in his grief,
  And now in his death,
  He is dead, and now he is dead.

