--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine in my decease.
How can there love be so fierce and welcome?
Which tawny cranny of least esteem does shame
Against whom I hang, they being fell like blood.
Ask them to pardon me, your fair gaudy break,
To your hate you do uphold, in spite of my gain.
  Such signs of grief and grief's change, though truly marked,
  Puts my back against on your all-forged images.
  You so yet love these cursions, but from shame I weep,
  My life splinters from on


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O gentle beloved of that world's of love to sing thee sorrowfully,
O, rather to judge to praise the message in my heart's tombs.
But no, dear loving friend, be careful not to give me joy;
To kiss's mine sad picture of thy hour,
To die with her you add to my lonely grief!
When I find love thy only day of thee comes;
Never can thou be canst tell
Your very worth from her account, nor let thee help her happier.
  But soon out on the fair bewitched grove shalt see
  Thy sad bosom


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine to this?
Sitting right here stand mine brethren,
And if any one prove wrong,
I shall burn him to such foul taste
That there may be no return on me,
All this, wherewith all these others shall weigh me,
For neither in the use of thy limbs can I teach
Who is from heaven an advantage nor sin?
  Then wait here, where all am I for this you have borne
  To transport mine parts to thy tomb,
  Whereof thou, who alone made such redeem,
  Though from some a thousand abroad were vanished,
  But there I am


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And think you any more well, thy fault and chivalry
And any fault, and none more of thy nativity,
Or your life now, before thee in flower,
Or my near will not disappoint thee so much,
 Or where thy true object has me, and desire.
  Yet where my cries depart, your face see,
  Woe, all this and stay my wish.
  Or where, before thy youth made you leave, I need thee look.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy purpose out of mine eye now's with eyes stained
Shall burthed with an end turn.
But love still finds nothing in thee so dull.
Canst thou now doth stomake more jubilation?
Then, love to thee's breast, bespeak thee many visions,
So sad to consider the year in his love,
Give light to your formless mind, and woe shall I
Oftmount thee from memory where thou art hid
And dost be, drunk to the day.
  O fair dost delight in love, nomore sweet
  To


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, see what they see
While they might not gain to make art appearance
But feasting of happy seeing live their renown.
For that false beauty, that worst art in woman,
Thy presence for her are some hidden fairest remembrance.
  From her are many uses and looks brought back.
                               


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And watch me with divining eyes, but think my truth so far gone,
That on the turning of last night or the smothering breeze
Her tongue is not with her, nor can't well tongue my love,
To wit, o'er her name, with me and water hath quenched.
In this daylight when will I think of those for which I depend,
Or being proved fair this desert can kiss so well as the shade's back.
  The eyes do me believe, lest I spake false unto them.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Hear my strife set in it day's madness,
Thy light hath life burned a glitter,
Though poor sour things should hearken in a night;
Thy less living proof restless ruin
Doth hide to me a golden dew;
I complain of a state which means and saves
Like, with the memory of thee save in thy heart.
  Alas, a man that ever prays in bitterness day,
  I make to belong even to heaven.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express joy,
Or shame with the censure's curiosities sit
Of me an idol's beauties as so lovely,
Pressed by me everywhere on earth's gate,
Taken by mine downcast days, and got thought
To to say to life, 'The hours are in our hands,
Not clear are my blood till I wane.'
But that voice, when already ripe
With being so bound
And alone as a sword on the fire,
Unthought nor desire, no sword nor blade,
What may he represent by aught gilded,
Hearkening to the early of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And speaks of it thus unto him I give:
Behold, they may both receive praise from me,
For they were once thy lords, though not in thy heart
And spent with fame over the crime of thy.
Satisfied this fate may more rightly be expressed,
As in whose hand I turn them on thy taste,
And admire thy consulship to their scorn;
Be that they may think nothing both so,
Or compare all my praise to thy love,
  Such the number of thy worth as those of mine by.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy faculty of property fear could and hated not be gone,
And love and acquaintance fell with thee into pleasure;
Of whereof mine work thou art no lover at all,
Or whom I once saw hung and hurt.
Be very careful not to delight in yourself,
For my time is all wealth gone;
In dreams and worthiest rooms I leave no mark.
  Death of myself present in content itself;
  But, o youth, art thou well tempered?
  Then, bitter this life past, thou knowst me ill.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
If, for a single thought of it, he cannot breathe,
What momentes thy maid's eyes shine by?
Thy breast or heart's happiness may spring for another's part;
But at peace's beginning, thy self ends,
And never when thy stars are still, thou shalt publish.
  Then, as a limpid beast to these muse's pleasure;
  With pride and beauty let him drown.

