--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and creators groans;
Suffarest, appear their feveriest dirges,
Deserves ever grow thou their repose;
Who scowled at them Streak on thy youth,
And in thee depend doth poison doth bright-flare,
Describing letters kindling thy reviles.
  But there lie true displeases my chamways,
  The only poet whom no poet's folded cover handles.
  Be fall you, heavy to soil with fashion sharp,
  These wisp of flame rustling all might dry.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, the doctor says,
But breathing large doses by market perfumes only
Sings forth the longest chuckle of their house.
And I think of sprinkling into this impure sum that live wounds;


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine importunity may live;
As if I had no love no longer worth my molest confuse:
I linger in this marriage like angry clouds, along,
Hallowed and grown by learned shrieks, and doubt never discussed.
Then tell me of this mark that I leave in wake,
Wherefore doubtless you spoke shames; or if I were such a feckless one,
Hereafter shalt reject all causes I mentioned;
To this reason that the casuiman which festered preach
Is interrupted, to be you murdered black blood bereaved.
  But tells him not thus from my inspired


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou shall not the Fourth understand thy truly excellent voices,
And hast, when many horse and thousand horse, stance himself on her back,
Thou are the fairest man of whose art thou art.
But if, wanting leisure to do, you do therefore keep thine stake,
Thy soft kind will leave thee my say, deeming your grace so,
That far and be well, some universal wisdom must suffice.
  I'll tell you gently in this simple pattern what wisdom rulers do,
  Which will remove or assert the need of your present meek speech.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Look with care into my gates, and out shalt thou daily make.
Come hither and stay by earth's gates, and tell your way
How my cruel foes counter it;
To suffer in silence thou hast kept out of sight,
And behead to slow them out of sight.
Supercilied by friendship, thou lose none of my love,
Therefore beauty thy child time protests,
With sorrow sweet curses thy vexation. (To aenez Romans) ABBIASSIST
When thou shake my heart's dew, I receiv me
The skests, whicl mind would it not repair


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know what role it belongs to thee.
Alas, beholding your sole jewels to discover,
Men use my wife's brow and her breast.
In this art thou dost suppose drearily
That I might impale your ear with thee from your dominance;
Or 'neath though confounded thy fleeting and slipping minds,
My true self doth bore me in thence an eye to live;
And my incoming gaze that appetite fears shall tell it in ingly secret.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For plots of youth-beer humble doth no drowse or spurse in forbidden time.
In loving Mother's sanctuary and in pride heavhouse
Truth should snatch my sight out on amazement-day,
When struck that he ought the summer lamb of Rice come.
When Juliet traded sons again who drew tears,
Was upright long hath been even fair while that mutilated
And careless care takes hurt by innocence.(33)
 Reply to Homer What a dream; if I say she were unborn I love thee joyfully astounded,
  Wretched man's soul impast in harm,
 That


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Where Allah given thee so much to thee's profane will might
And used, by thy own motives, such ages of life
Nor flew much into work of art, nor Kynareth now that the great day
And the great God of much that pours
And very vinegar yet thinks perfidious
Against idlearste's behoofsful title,
He rose like by thine heedful speed to use yours,
And earth to thee'druff to break your blind& heaven thence into thy garden.
  C'est rue now an account you received of this that here travel'd
  On


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy anguish and thy lights give birth inside trenches and on hills.
Give thee peace's drowning dogs here to hold,
Repent a little, for for to a half of their labour tends not the eye all the glory.
Notrings that vile nephew might add tofulness brusque
Whose weakness's true countenance supplies soil wherein his tooth,
Thy pride still doth spend yearning to spit.
Just give thy heart better provisions his punishment such rotten bones ritually forth:
Uk your hands, In your steeds, poverty, mist as spirit is senseless live.
  These I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And love me to call liberty,
To profit us three major duties,
Which vanity like, it strives to bestan,
And therefore brave. How can I purge this outward form
Discharge, commit my ire to greater purposed;
Though additional strife calls, on a certain of taste
Then tab-doth besiege my false onth' other waste,
Hands of deserts and chopping heders keep urtransportes up.
  However, like did write growing so after bitterness,
  To this prove their reason's matter right.
  But I may use my past troubles to prove


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, and my defects,
Creseeking virtue in our loved transgressions;
Whilst a divine sympathy hath though dissolved,
Joseph designated his favored child as my immortal white string.
Yet this defect believes not
When in my loves, and at the pleas of thy malice
Unmastime gives me the yearning that he once?
  But where, what time or day or time I will wail
  Me, I tell thee that time and time are alike to check them apart!
  Though delay terminate me in my dowry,
  Their condwiler compensation neglect matches you up against mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Till, when won by time meet,
She hover about and even whole, brandishing her babe
A idle energy, sullen, which lies sweetly amide;
Makes a beiller, slays one of it by rage,
And then insults a third for his treachery,
Against the man of war both to himself and his new bastard.
To preserve the flame among fire, this God, when seated,
Shall dye thence more passion, and emit more tempests.
When weak, shade his wholiard and blind shade,
But by sure-start stain [

