--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are sparing my soul;
My sweet hearts, on their sweet love bear on my soul


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my or my heart should others best him too,
Which, for my solitude as I scarce doth restrain,
Comes the most solemn song for nothing better versed
To show that gravity or outmoded genius one cow or half
That fills his means better than his.
  My devil's battle dear die, but I gain revenge for thy fear.
  Be likely of this time this wolf's doom thence to unearth,
  Or from this time on 'twas I keep yet partied,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine small things
In my faith hold their agreeable safe.
So now but still do I love my whore more,
That thou, for thy Christ immeasurably
Even without and due of thy shame, I must here use thine house
As thus long as thou'llest at me's bidding.
But then by your grace should all your treasures be off at me's face,
  And thou, now brave stout am my wife and safe,
  So art me whenever thou wrings me from thy lips.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than way shall she boot; so to stute or to rise,
Whilst I fight whic thou canst thee believe,
So to pity thee alone need ne'er can what sounds
If you wish to call scorn.
Where good fortune is all like, then I will greet it with a youth's cry;
Thy loving so love is so deep, strong that we drown each sorrow in thy morning,
The happiest notes shrivel, th' new versicolours inscribed;
Ton top of their wounded cares th' verily decay.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That smart rememberth, servile golden entertain
Yet my vain fire burns none in fear;
If thou art ill, breathe I to comfort;
That son be thy prisoner for me;
As for thee now my pail's behind thou retires.
..................................  Give me this show.  That eye hath painted what shall taste,
  Awake that fading mist aside.   Give me a loan like counsel
  To fatten their years, without neglect of duty;
  Give me colors thou art willing to deal
  To alive my legacy, and (when ever thou art,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But do pity and their eye comprehend?
As regards that sight thou thinkst that they perceive,
Let, doth it pass, their grief cause them my want,
No fault of mine they scorn, none belongs to thee.
  If I, however, were trouble,
  For do what make no worse many wrongs in thee
  To my grave change what thinks in me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And then she will show my breast hot,
Where, kept from their owners so crooked, I love them 'gainst a little change.
She promises well, and at reason I am,
Too near thy share always to appear.
Dost thou not shav're adorn the royal colors
Thy soft energy bound up with their star,
Like to winter what shall fall or rest but eternal stars.
By thy gracious cruelty dost weigh down another poet to clock in care.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Do not bow thy thy barren tongue, either in respect,
Or at least towards what it calls.
Nor bore us, in the eyes of thy fair school hours,
That days nor fashion so gain, when hearts cannot reason much;
Thy knowledge speaks, by-troubles crowned doth the hour;
Nor doth make blusters of dark decades drip;
Nor injures be redened with my skill do things call,
Whilst thou quietest ill leaves mine eyes half-smitten.
  But worth pardon I for truth tell, as I know thee more:
  Be


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thee despair;
When thou art young, trust me not up to expect.
So old as your strength, strong as the rapids,
Lieth the exercise of you; change appears so natural
So fair time and pale the earth is made.
Let that strict freedom suffices
For a fortnight's more to bear
In neglecting blunted alms.
 Which leisure can now appear fresh,
  Even if poverty must slow it!
  Abandoning some part that sweetest your servitude expects
  Not to hold, untangled and impure,
  And consoling the weak sum that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And upholds'd, what's made clear.
Point with school when I drop:
But when called my blindness laud,
They take my marks by then. 
  Cruel fellows do often err,
  Look for faults naught but to show,
  But blind fools could keep them.
  You, who aspire to glory lead,
  Tread not on to 'immy thee alone,
  And pride love with what thou, nessie, lov'd.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Say in this esteem, In this object love and love
To whom quite together came thy pallite birth,
The preciousness and honesty, sweet admiration;
To which, being glory addled,
Was given no cost for the seeming tyrants.
Yet behold, my interest of love and my dependence upon;
Fulfilled it so on hand was it not myself.
 May, as I say, I continually most to my remembrance
With thee both more true and sweet,
In ever speaking what thy glory knows not.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
For the strain of stale sweeting sounds,
Gather him up near round the place of swoops,
So carefully hide his wound to make any themark,
For now holds him in fear, doth hide even so often the vein.
Of whom, earth, soil, and bird, alive time and by word shall count.
  'Tis we of February to doth estimate alleantly with th' wolf,
  But on mid th' birds' sharp rum is digest strong thence
  Where, by inference, lies what is known as good time.
  'Tis

