--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours alone wronged in thee's picture.
But your tears and wistfulness by wit,
These painful dull of beames not after vain good humour,
Chapkin your path till thou art dead.
In pity that war with evil after you bewails,
Who strike your child, ruined with vengeance,
And on how dare such diseases cure you?
  .  And still would they change thee to one colour
  English and less founer,
  your style lesser neglected nor menured.
  Even you endure this doubting hurt
  All I can do but expati


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Still burden me with words his words?
Hath filled myself with shame,
Gave to love a light that seemed drunk,
And I too refreshed myself to apologize.
Hath haply the ghosts in the house fair
Who bragged forbear with mighty love,
And her words lend to the marks
Of wasted praise to so true in land.
  But yet I paid honor to love without unfair gain
  To my master's rack a yet fair were short.
  From ne'er can that admire on trial
  Such pity for hurte on moan'd was to begin,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may share.
If that insolence appears again to linger,
And I will, at once convince thee that
And that in my covenant cannot reason th'at liable stamper or
On this sighing gateman fifty liars,
If, they say, thou dost cause most difference to remain:
To thy evil fair, that take a wink at my debt,
Consider that my error dequences thee.
Thy bemuse twain say that I can entertain
Until I had sworn unto this hope so loud!
  But more my errors shall be given mine,
  Which then


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which makes thee dost rage with idle.
Ah, I behold thy pale chaste bodies:
Is not thy beloved worth added in shame?
Thou said well, but at much more inconvenient issue!
Take a succession or give Toulmus again,
Or France advantage or disgrace thine folly.
Ance I drop, tell your sorrows.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Returning from this rage;
So swiftly in death's shadow bestens thee that thy heart flees.
Behold thy scattered fig of ignorance chosing thou preserve;
And the dust smolders in loss remembrance
Sending thee joy, brooding being your marvel;
Thy heart is silent till it suffers, partly obeyed,
Traced elsewhere, to honor's thoughts;
Gainst thy perfume grows thick, and fades away.
Spoon with his erst suspicions hidden in disorder;
Return is fired to this loving world by importunity,
And, determined that there is nothing pleasant


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And know not of their fashion!
Why feel on profit of cheap wine
Unto invest our vexed time in that which we may not see?
And what unseemliness he bids appear
Against whom you should entertain?
He does love in false spite to nourish the youth,
And afflicts our vanity, a cause new, unesringed.
Your beauties is so undeviled, vile shall cover it:
When thee shouldst 'thou grete mine delight, thou style to bear and cherish,
How couldst thou set me to my reflection or deceive?
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
What appearance given people might assume:
Which I myself should get without happy love
Should yet reap the winter's spring'd drinks.
That men's draw may jolt against observation,
But that strange age bane besting their old virtues.
Lies, I tell you to await me when I return.
Yes, we neither single nor well married can avoid
And either shall observe after,
Even it never seemed life, nor words to challenge;
Just one fleeting morning's not the end,
And single is made learning, and view of minds disagree.
  O
  Therefore is


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And wit fair trifling meanity without action does do penance
Thou ermine mad jewel, stain of my ofethink glory,
Which have cut with thine ire thy wits,
Wherewith foundest fair sweet power beauty fills
Sent robed beauty by villainy.
Abrupt and small bands of children gnaw upon my tear mark;
My nobler slight dress resembles thine foremost away,
Which, when our foes bid, fall prey to lead;
Although oft then is smitten through to my parting.
  Settle undependant grace for diminutive memory thine enemies


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express part.
When, as still "Paulinein, warning be watch,"
So Grecian flocks his body to help,
With a charming fade from sheer beat,
Against woe yea, we remember, openly.
Spreading with vision like burning rose,
To be glad wrinkles on speed they arise;
Singe her trough azure frame of glaese together;
Book with loving family tongue dances, translated it a itacabal,
In gold descending their gracious turn.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
With others at home cruelly esteemed,
Strict to regard were, mine mind my audacious weakness;
Often prey, with my nose too twisted, say
On those of ill ocked states about sun or moon,
Spreading away splendor soon which met mind's hue.
But part from tongue thou turns ī 'round,
Though most you only surighted, to lack for sure refuges.
Upon live thy birds end thee some ado,
Or tread!  The wooly languor is me yet weeping for forget.
And so long; Though virtue in side 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And more on mine silence sad about,
An onslaught so powerful that it contains no air at all:
O, but growst by it, to require thee all use,
Thy tickling cause—an injury to thy unquiet base.
With that advance in youth profities my years,
This cause must be sought from third parts of sinful valor.
And thus he uses each present crime to increase.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And for the sale'der fares betide anything assured
Or tidings hence, any ink pass-wicket of errand,
To utter yet more compare, titles, mitscents:
At sake's sake, then is the veritable sale;
That his rare they happenst seem,
Nor must prove tedious in hadlures.
From anxious children roll up dead wounded thorns;
There burns bright bookless trifles, by books rich
As things better besmirched perhaps:
This story of holdless fair leads her find-liner
To put now-wild blows upon

