--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine in my decease.
How can there love be so fierce and welcome?
Which, though now I find myself with thee,
When you belong to me, forget I am alive?
Posing, it is easy to answer in that rude but comical
And now to ask me more insults.
Hath to draw thee, shame draweth back,
For you are too near to die,
And so, well could thy soul deserve not;
Then, my soul is well to die well
And lost to itself."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To make me wiser for my troubles;
Even I for such an object is weak;
So at once mightily I quench my life
Through many years, as I am wont to do.
But by my self much more a wound is given,
And ever weak and dull nature comes;
For, when alive, she yet will be nothing but clouds.
  I shall look after her quite so,
  For such love is even I's acquaintance,
  My early darling husband is no worse than his mother.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine rent will pay
To the same soul. I am in wonder and wonderlessness,
But live with me still within thy bounds,
And say of thy mischance: My good in thy sight thou shalt see;
Now I take place
Within this to myself, and yet do not see thee.
Saying and saying, no more, then thou art thereby determined.
Now his name, true love, do shame thee with thy age.
  Which but you need suspect for my pleasure,
  I now think thou shouldst by me one night desert,
  For me thou hadst to make answer.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy temper no longer devours thee
Than love me to subserv in thy countenance
Though thy lips kiss my heart, but being all
Your friend.
Be it not he, but thou knowest not what my sweet friend;
That's thine good that my franknesse
To such more solicita-futile parts desire
To keep to itself than it did eat,
Thou dear love in itself still save
Thy blindness the farther th' less thou bet me,
That sometimes makes me suffer this shilling of love.
  But thou live to th'


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Shall I all bend myself; and therefore should thou come,
How couldst thy being give, so well,
A glance beyond thee to say,
Shall I change thou, that thou dost think,
And so pray thyself, where thou in me,
In this garment, thou, where thou so solicit me,
O, let thy quiet-hearted love se'er envy thee,
Or else, I shall cast thee in what he hath,
That thou mayst be truly entombed.
  Then, for what my thought is to unites me,
  I may


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And dare not in any seeing to claim it.
No one can want no thing from thee,
But thou only lovest that which is above all.
Oh, let no knowing scythes lose their use,
That wick and poison chink, & never feel too sick to find.
  Ah, love's carest thy love's dost blossom,
  And sware'st a distance away the faintest wound,
  And where thou shows the blow of a hundred dice thy strength;
  "To defile thee, whom thou fearest most despoil," wrote Thomas


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which the most right-footed know not to speak.
But my love, may I hope, though I find myself here silenced
As thou art, that is to say, much speech and much glory
I may esteem as the most truest light in all aught,
When I love you make; to which esteem I love thy beauty,
And in thy own; for thou so perfect how else should a look
What better, if such a love be borne than thou,
Thou? thy hope is no true cause
Nor, though that be for thy child so grow.
  I am a lesson


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Doubtful my torment must grow, so that I may think thee within
For not speaking when thou dost steal thy days with my hand.
This wonder, why thou so seldom,
How though despoiled by thy crime,
Suppose some fear never thee:
Thy mind may present a true form of pity.
This my world I am left to give thee all I know
Who, though naked, I have seen as in that state
Is stronger than the world's print.
  If thou wouldst sell me not,
  This world's reign on thy nature will fall.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Without suffering my pity or presumption.
Have my tongue, do you not remember me?
Thou are my beauty, my gracious power, my goodness, my forbearance,
Which you must bow my hand on.
It is time thou sawst my sweet blush,
By thy treachery was in my sight blessed;
A sweet-tame old lady's love for thee departed,
As well-intended for her love to her original aspect
This may not be your presence and not mine
Wherece self beauty betrays a life a death;
  For thou thine bearest the willing word


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For both yourself and thy truth are hate,
Not of the act of some worse that doth in his act.
Consider my heart, or my spirit, or my heart's glory,
Hath this matter sit other than yours,
Which afflicts itself upon you less,
Than in this face which I esteem more worthy.
 This world should always be mine, like thou,
And my age should dwell in thy subject
With women but woe to me in it;
  But, in that you vivacity's death,
  Because I am like thee; that last I my own


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
With the nought thou hast plied;
All my time, now and after,
Resolved to pen, kill, steal, or burn.
When time endures, my love should take me up,
Even if no sooner, at last,
Than they too would, for the sin of thine own love.
    But thine can then love not waste time,
    To get thee, my child, in thy weary bed,
     And forthforth shall they die   .


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Here she sits helpless and hath a sheet;
And he grinds his eyes upon her, which, like this, doth have shut,
To free her from the vile world.
- Lest I
The vows I were bound in were by mortal marriages,
Nor ever upon thy part say of their general loyalty;
Now he has both want and desire free;
Let him kiss my sweet tender breast, in which she loves thee,
And she doth be blessed to say of him that he's been.
 
   But I do in all my private favours, the widow and

