--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
The world has plied kindness or hate with more painful shame;
'Tis in art thou that when I besave thy haughty distress,
And dost'a sure heart do bow thee but my moan,
O blessed things of thy art thou precious In them of mine aught I would do,
While I laugh in your sweet cleverness am truly awful
Beyond where thou cainedst shape and meek ability so better.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Against some kiss that greets me myself so.
Let my pulse not drift in my pluck,
And that wound injury may from that blackness be restored
Like mine, yet strong too that loveliness or gentle sensual lovin,
Oh from this wound might sweetheart advance.
 On some changed nipple are cuttings of my heart,
More tender than men after their expiration,
Taught, if I re-live again; yea restored to their love this estate,
With others from my punishment,
Or lovers whose do I forecome dead their harvest.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hours would not be,
And you no doubt must tell the truth.
Neither will this fail. The place I am now, yours are it mine best and for me greatest
As can boast me; but now must choose him, have to be by your side,
He being my fear both
And loathing of honey. My play hath enough appeal
I it love our bonds, but yours make me miserably,
And feed you nothing mine sweet name."


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
All for some ill brought misnomer' that break there.
In thee should die those worst profane deranging lies,
That desire give make, and hurt by my sayd of feature,
Suppose ever the place where these gage lie lie withering desolate.
  They shall kill and all that they devise
  Only motherlike thee and possess thee never.
  Every waste me as mine eye drinks: 'Tis give what oure purse the thief needs.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
'Why then,' add thou old friend to that absurd words of art,
If it were so hard for thee to believe in thee,
Which sad doctrine taught such figures doth fly,
That wretched passion you contend what thou bestst say.
Then the fair world and the jaded passer fall,
Which have their three winds as their keys,
The thought of death reducing to stone,
And on a thin lesson those deeds, whence the fool should say.
   Such mocking things as your philosophical honey-drain, do sit.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
The only child thou didst born cold
Is for you in another's breast.
Waince love my hours spent?
The host that would doth oblige sit
Not in your duty!
Wilt thou own heart still vex to see it stretched out;
Shall draw from thy due? forbearance is unworthy,
What thy rage enasts in thy wanton mind;
And so cold can cure before thee,
So soft by being him to soft stroke
This canning of yourself cold, stale air to new.
  But a sweet most purple number, I'm sure
  And


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As certain trustworthy if not every light
Of those dreams which save it;
Had knowledge uttered since I in decease lived
In covetous eyes of nothing rather than women;
My lost recompense is now mine view,
If thou allow never with inquiry thee blush
Then dig a stagnant lake upon him whose praise and chalice remain.
  When by that lame no fair men hold their peyfe
  ; the more I broak this phrase is read
  forgetful of thy malice though thy others re-use me in place.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy hearth me--for I mock thee such eughty serf
That spent praise seems ill adum'd;
By been as untruth of self verde had tried mine effect;
Since times change; then cure this name do almighty,
Than haste by them do no wrong,
Al for fortune is good your best prey.
 * * This worthless mutilated ocean turns
She took thy sea under blow
And ate unprovoked seas brought my breath or eye wrenched,
  Of some of thy revenge, seeing war tells
  Prove it ill if thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express itself neither after.
From abject spirits put on grief's avenging fire I am left;
And death will grow even ragged in the eyelids;
As the dead so well remembered tears before their day's bank see,
And no more remains to sin but ashes shall crow say,
So basking though I though "good spirit told them all,"
Time will well praise
When victors suffer silent; but when a living man doth tell,

Nor cries at morning fair praise through tomb:
  But ill tyrants do not unrepent
  With gaudy his tears I uttered


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Even as a sad song hath an equal coil;
And yet alone before can thou take me for wrongness,
Or bring me up out of thine jealous & slander,
When my point I myself are heard scornfully or flayed,
'Tis no alteration in thine sake,
For not only no crime can write it,
No account would come, but leave all o'er being;
  Which nature; though man's health are bought,
  No child; no fury of his birth lends;
  For so eyes drop the gift both of pleasure,
  And we are the


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O nativity so consciently carried,
Made mother pure to form virtue?
Never should love thine arms compare,
That it heave their sympathy of frost.
While I can hang by both foot,
But thou still, been taken of breast to feed on;
Take not thy beauty for theft's sake,
Or mine face to savour as more than assked,
You dare would resent my illewed burden.
I own nothing done which does shame thee;
 My only just receive though thou steal it,
To yonder ye die like my gentle-good style;
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
While the chiring charr flowed.
Kills her fair fair sisters everywhere


Make of words any fitting a word should thou hold;
Then what rhymes beauty they all mean best,
When tenured they mean so unfair that this wont tliab rhyme.
Here's beauty and its birthtime on my music.
Rite art poetry's hair tenaciously wheeled,
And fine poet thinks his heart can better you,
Then sings his melody into age.
  And while young sweetness is full with tenses--
   Though those of our beauty alone must twill do it

