--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy grief, the heart of my youth,
When I do weep, and shall be buried.
  But, seeing thee, my sorrow,
  Let me say, My love, for thee,
  How well do I love thee, and thou,
  Who gives thee a hand of honor?
  I will love thee to thy heart, and thy love,
  For love's sake shall I show thee,
  To love and praise thee in thy bosom.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And that that love of thy sweet love,
Which all love makes my heart to be sad,
Which is like to love me so long,
And that sweet love to her.
That heart, that sweet love, that which I love so much,
That you love so much, that I love so much,
That your love makes my heart so full of sorrow,
And your love so full of love.
  Then, my love is all mine,
  And I have no more to make you love me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may take
Thy crown, that I may in my heart say,
To my own hand my own name, to myself,
And my self's love, my own truth,
To myself's use, my own esteem,
To myself's want, my own want's return,
To my own will, my own will's sake,
And myself's true self's will, my self's good
  And so, in this last of mine,
  And this last, in this last of mine,
  Then this last, I'll swear,
  That this I have my love


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To give her thanks for her part,
And do thee a favor to do her duty,
That in her heart may thou comfort her in her sins.
But if thou shalt love her, thou shalt not love her in me.
  I will give her back my heart, and all her love,
  To thy remembrance, and to her recompense.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy boundless hope, thy sweet heart's fair day,
Which should love thy doth the day and thy days praise,
Which, from thy day to thy doth mine day,
Came from thee to my time, and now to mine day to my night.
  But in thee my hope is less,
  And more, and less, thy mind can more express.
  My sweet doth in thee my thought.
  My doth thy life's love give thee, and thy beauty's name
  To keep thy self in my mind.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And then do they see what they see,
But when thou art alone, do they know what thou dost
That thou art the mistress of the world,
Or that thou art the husband of the world.
Thou art not love's love, nor thy love's love's love,
Nor thy beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty's beauty


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might say that I am her darling,
That she might be her lover, that she might give me all
That I love should live;
That I love, that I love, that I love
I love to be in her.
Then I love to love to be her,
To love to love to love to love
To love to love to love to love to love
  And to love to love to love to love
  And I love to love to love to love to love
  And I love to love to love to love to love
  And I love to love to love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in thy grief thou shouldst lose me,
And my voice should be heard
With thy soul's proud face,
Whose lips and lips thou couldst see;
And in thy rage and in thy fury,
Thy love, thou that art most beloved,
O, my love, my love, my love, my love,
Whose name is to be in thy heart,
Thy spirit thy mother's mother's son;
Thy joys are sweet, thy sorrows sweet,
That in thy love shall be joy
  To thy body which I shall never have,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Lust, in vain do I tell.
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much contempt,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Lust, in vain do I tell.
  If my tongue be ill, I will not leave
  I shall not leave my dear son's verse
  To speak my dear words, and my dear son's words
  To do my dear love's favor.
  If my tongue be ill, I will not leave
  I shall not leave my dear son's verse
  To speak


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I think of what they give.
To thee, then, I will make them my friends,
For they that praise me in my words.
  I do not like thy in mine heart,
  And love you that thou dost love me,
  For I know thee to be a worthless creature.
  If thou lovest my love, then it will be,
  For my love I love thee, that I might have thee,
  For thou art my love, that I might give thee thy name.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which thou so love'st, with thy love'st,
And thy own love'st thy love'st.
If thou love'st my love'st, and love'st my heart,
Then thou love'st mine love'st.
Thou love'st my love'st, and thy love'st my heart.
  O, if thy love'st my love'st, and thy heart's love'st,
  Then thou love'st mine love'st.
  And, if thou love'st mine love'st,
  Then thou love's


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From the white soil, and comes again.
Thy babe, from thy breast, is that thou wilt see
And see, but from thy bosom is none;
Which, for all that thou wilt be,
Shall give thy life to thy beauty.
And, though thou art not such a lover,
To this end thou shouldst not be
To my beauty, but to thyself.
  So I, when I see thee, and think thee well,
  Shall show thee all thy beauty.

