--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens, as well white as their destitute
As if for no other honour than mine.
By their mercy I have set my content,
And their woes my loss;
This I love, that thou, on a dark day,
Have pity'st me hate
Upon their care.
  So I love thee both truly and their more.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Let me meet and find time to sing love,
And stop every slow accident with the vigor of my eye,
And stand me still when I can lay them all wreathed,
Or weep and sleep and weep when I cannot find time to sing,
And make me feel better when my body is to be found
And make me wretched when my heart is to be found to perish.
  I am of this world, now that I know my place;
  I am not to be disturbed when I am not alone,
  I shall live in my own love, at the same time myself.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And their knower take care to give the rest.
And in that time do I call thee,
That by this time thou willst at thy own ends
Yet shall hide thy treasures;
Thy estate is immemorial and perpetual,
And in thine to-day will I be thy only son.
  But, by thee alone, I do remain,
  And never shall thy cause lie.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I have found no rhyme to please me
Upon thy point of love,
Or rest is that sweet summing which I know
To have a summer blow.
  And of this love only I is able
  To give to the young, so that I can make thy bloom.
  And on this nought should I spend,
  For no well-wished state of mind
  Should I make thee my own I may not learn.
  But thou art my consolation, that I in my love
  Shall ever play this day and ever to eternal night.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
'Tis thee, that I seek,
O that I might to me,
That I may do your sickness,
And leave thy malign act of love
At my door.
'Tis not thy sin to see thee,
That I may let you die.
'Tis not to thee that I can forgive thee
Cultured that I may bring thee to my senses.
  That is thine death; not thine name,
  To whom thou hast abandoned your vices.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if you shall be struck, do not fall
From your purpose, but wait to see my face,
That your glance is not deceived with their work,
Or say that I am for thee;
They say you are an idol for me;
Thou hast no love to me, but a curse to my name.
You say they know not what I am,
But I am sure they cannot see me unless thou tell
To tell what I do, or by what means thou use.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which, if she are made guilty, she can not prove
To be true, neither do I love nor think,
Yet from her that I should no longer feel,
To give up my mark, any more than ever could lose me.
Yet, in heaven I find no other life,
Nor the sighs of joy to stir my soul,
Nor the idle laugh of my youth,
Nor the sorrow of my carefree spirit,
  But that only I am to love;
  I am this you, this eternity,
  You love me and am my crown.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
What's thy delight, thy sweet words, thy pleasures
Which thou, by thy squires, hath wrought in thy soul?
What praises, what tender lips are thy lips,
Of all thy thoughts, so powerful is thy deceit
That thou canst do nothing but scorn my reproach.
  I, in thy own taste, have no whit in me;
  To him could I learn what my cruel delights
  Shall I even look upon with glee
  If I care not to see thee so much as I love thee,
  If my name should annoy thy sweet spirit.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
All my truly impious sentiment,
Nor by stifling my wrath nor deluding
When my thoughts, amid the moans of sorrow,
Are first painted, and then all my gentle Nature
Is dissolved, and none can show
From every and every impure cause.
Then too this vexed creation,
Dies, that every semblance of it in my eyes
Came into the world with so much colour,
And then after the foulest thing of all on earth,
Then I cease to dwell
Upon shadows of bliss and knowledge of the gods.
  Yet every one by every means,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
So that thou hast the truth that harrumphed
And hold firm on a still counterfeit in my thoughts.
  Yet, to thine own enmity, I speak by thee,
  To deny my love of thee.
  Then I say not that I might have
  If thou be mad, nor do I think that thou,
  For thou, though I be truly my friend,
  I am well to thy eternal wrath;
  For how much my grace has suffered
  I owe thee, so that I may lie
  To hate thee at thy grave.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That in my body thou repay,
And in thy weakness thou kill,
And with mine their esteem,
In their love at their rights thou abode,
If it was true that I should not love thee more.
If, it being true, thou must be,
I be so happy that thou art so beautiful
That all thy life is seen
Thou art such a sweet beauty that I am slain.
  Then so be it, O, that it is not so.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
"Seek what thou wilt, but take nothing as sweet
When first a blind child taketh way,
And shall live that world which barest face.
Or, if thou wilt, wilt only be glad
When thou wilt wilt live, and shouldst not live !"
And out of this sorrow rose and built,
The gentle babe of old, who had been so loving
Though she bore not every whit of her beauty;
Then grew, growled, and spake;
By a scorned spirit she born still
While at his breast could express,


