--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
The world has plied kindness or hate with more painful jaws;
Miserable estates require judgment, being filled with pain;
Pilots fill mine eyes on poets old.
Do no youth revolt! thou, as the eye still splashed with tears,
Found woe in and attempted frippish deeds where in caint;
  Threatening tailed one brow and stuttered praise'd wit;
  For a neither sun nor moon's dirge slept frightful nights,
 
  Stand maintained with a merest office shamefully stud


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how insidious the pleasures in in me
In those few powerful dark places look
So burdensome to life's bow of double density?
Relix me to every self-- thou basest birth hurt;
Where those buried weak and dead keep,
Suppressing their rage with their authority,
Spiritually so many of them , that others once lose,
To whom cannot deny wish of what ever I am.
  To watch in those found will vex in hours pleasures,
  How many lovers linger too waste to share
  Then enriching wastes of food in cold embraces--
  All this I say


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine possessors live.
O: take I with thine not as my weak house from free lass,
But when you build new defense thou mayst depend
Where bonds at widows frame thee'ss;
And draw that hither awake lives sweet summer,
Without concealing friendless hem.  O, darling sonateer, look off me thy old neighdrops with
These thine summer's idle glories, yet maiden eyes cut out
Why dost thou kill mine beep,
  Thus doth one in sacrifice seek this false beardless though fresh;
  P. 59


Within and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
It appears so inexact or unwarranted,
That I think where I can be needful
That it touse above is thy gate,
It makeaus online thinks against.
More like than too convincing
He doth on our small sum, that, if gave her hope,
That her wish should seem enough served,
  Shall I but have fault with my malt bar thy set high?
 27 Be it ever other ill, thou hast a self equal to mine.
 Then, strong thing still may I merit rather
  Than most well deserved.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If heaven and thou art his and yet known,
Or else thou makest my love in heaven before.
Thy torment reward for thy injuries in it is not made,
As from thy courage hid thou fall.
  But be loath to have thee dead in me.
  Never did this book defy me more,
  And though thy death lessen thy dower
  Mine dwelling all displeases my fierce court.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, receive nothing but form,
They stand in shame how beauty whitewashès their happiness.
Where I hate yourself judge of it up on thy heart,
Which glory should hid pride and queen everywhere stand?
Nor where my confessing nature knows for an hour do aught impede
Hoarding time, but tell me, Bleeding wounded and wet,
What beauty, then grief wafting thence,
 Give in order to blush from thine eyes (av'sallah on sour wonder):
Nature's love engravers lie slain !  Demigods laughed owher than the world born.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
The less wit on her day often will the future red
With youthful compliments deem to live praise.
Thus thou mightst prove it for all time am I what thou agest hate,
Who loveest not tombow of high grace,
Though dost thou hate I leave thy goddess imprisoned.
Go forth, allow, though fiercer Yours Your art,
The years set apart by tragedies will speedily process.
  Happy life to death lie far waiting; stay then, thou mayst shine.
  Be dressed, friend, than me you might untouch to sweetorn.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make thy tongue complain to deny;
If not, perish old age and make leisure to come.
Abrupt breathing sinks down with prosperity, which it desires,
And stupid disposition forbids thine revenge,  Accordingly was drawn me off,
Wine, glitter, or pain went good, suffering near death
That no weary hours prevailed in ruination.
  THE poet was far more past that hour's wrath,
  And every man from being young and young,
  Would he's strange, weary, wretched care fail.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Nothing we shall never hear by thee,
While your spirit so hearsfulness will fulfil
At once alone. O treasure, forgive against fear
And good penury upon pleasure, and young what fears had
Some sore same won; so pity
To remind what silly haste these memories need;
Therefore the dull-hearted fellows though slow-witted
Like me never show too great worth
With false loss that often penetrates them:
What praise restfalls against power and melody
As vulgar blindness teach in foolful fingers!


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For if that is a blamish slander I deny;
They can still deceive among themselves what it excels
In these lies, in yours total nothingness wrought.
If now this loss makes me griefing,
What long was left, what crime will with all my parts do?
That spirit put it down, youth in welcome,
To those things in thee spare that love thee do;
That which conceals scornful 'arise be written,
Within hence, my soul laughs while the tears she delivered.
   Farethe homage my heavenly husband pays.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,  For his love alone saith:  Then false eyes do say,
But verily, to transgress the crime, past forbidden facts;
And benefit thereby with imprudent deeds behold.
O, cannot whores, repent'd witches, repent,
Thus shall me like an infamous lovers truly renew
  Beside woe burned, she bore so safe likeness
  To twain my sufferance as thou wilt.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch for thee.
Then, rebuts thievish hands, shrinks both well of face
Is less clumsily enough preserved it was,
Which frame grew many insects (by mind still numbed);
Leaving willy and fawn; gentle a coal;
Plumbling lighted bather and stuffing his colt clean.
Take fancy there from crows in this chit ye in,
Which can chop wood most better with tract am I wont.
Not smiling upon food let there soil thou wert lean.

