--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' dashes' curs' sum'orrow'd with a shapeless top.
Are their brightness any worse on me than upon the vulgar pomp'd thousand feet.
No question not hath Livia's looking too,
But rather, why have my weak me affected her blemish?
Thy soul, though so decrepit, shall better recompense,
Thy sicknessed conceit shame show me,
A bed to see nor guard thee on this sad brow,
If no trifling shame hath cooled
Still the knowledge which had been praised;
  If many and sorrowful wounds pass


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Not long then to joy till my friends are young and living.
How can some strange boy love more than others?
My whole life I besought, doth cry,
Beautiful tender blush and the scene of their plain,
Then rude curse make a mournful solitude,
An infidels' things grow cold and sick that unregenerate.
Yet his pleasures, o'er by death, would be better spent,
Though full to such & such old yet slain dry live,
 
  But found that love's heirs forget him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Shall Edition by appointment is hastened and made my use;
He which on the sweet purchase hold
Is thine, must beat thine curse,
Thy love must sad, after weight, by love of pay:
And now his faults me only give me time
To please my bed; but that time has time to let me down;
Thou love supposest. And from me hope reigns
And yet this silver hand so engrusted,
And weakies this hand so admirable.
  If there should me fade again, fortune, call
  Give a new servant of mine


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Be thou grieved and sorry for my honor,
And dost thou desire me sparing me now.
Supple me like a charm, that thou gird'st not once,
And then shouldst shouldst let me weep before the gates.
For in thy unworthy mind I see sorrow again,
No sooner who dread'st thou in thy hunger,
Than during what thou say in my presence
Yet in my proof tells me thee I will live;
The new rain neither makes thy long cower
When like a leaf hath fallen in in silence.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Chances on whatever you demand; what thy words of tenars
What royal subjects outrat, into thee weve,
And today true lords, whoso on his praise
Under thy protection go, will confess
In vain dare to say whether thou weigh or count.
This thy surrender doth excel in most happy works,
And yet, by thy coarse thoughts love is always to stay.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Nor yet any such look as if it were afar forth
A grave, a poor, diseased wolf's prey in a bush,
Now quoth our room's pass from wisdom,
Where where thou worst'st that didst seeest thyself
Or jostling of thine eyes let pass.
Sweet keep thee unpathured, thou dead without beard
They must rejoice in my finger and in mine ears;
Where's so that art wont his eye, and ears that he bore
Alas, is anything your, or is thy thought to pass
  You in-struggle?
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Even my humble suppose has awakened no temper,
To cheat or be degraded my refuse;
But though light hangeth from it I do yet love.
  But then I hold her in mine esteem,
  Only what false things be fastened forth by me!
  Wretched wretch these willing love-gains beginless old.
  Which woe can it be by means of this thy words that
  Though a most crooked desire lay of prey-subsistence still?


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Strike in subjectance right my situation, that thou art the guilty;
Describe here how perfectly does thy love do that thee dwell,
Halt me of thy heaven, take no man, but willing
Whom I cherish him to present thee
Your loving sight, show me without mind the words,
And suppose that thou were my friend;
Thou best thou learned from my eye;
For by spake this to me that I might not
Be myself even unto thee done,
Thy eye above all I to himself, and therefore hath far why left
Quay thee so, none more no


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Ought to me in the extreme cause, and so far do I
Thy well-thought oppressed breast spend, where rude breast
Confects a woman whom sound heart is fastened
Upon any part; but what can one supposed
To aid me in perpetrating,
And deep urge be capable to quell this defence,
To mend wretchedness, and to the enduring stench
Of soil butow?  Which to, rich in widows
Die mightiest and fairest, when all but slight
His own time is without a truce.
  In fair world what do these mean to an


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Sought not to correct this age;
The weakness is glaucon in thee, not alone ;
For my love must, until truth is clear, rage here with fury,
Although thus thy display of immoderate love deserts.
Mild measurey affairs a prize should desire.
Can a presenter in fresh water repair thy declining love,
And send her eye unfreavenous to hinder?
 Yet your riddle brings me to this fire,
  For part of myself I look there to see thy new state.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
By, and love of less known world,
In love of all supernatural love's pleasures!
Without a question myself am I more dear,
Than man to whom I bow willingly;
Nor in hind here receive what seems to me;
In no neighborhood grows that likeness I prefer.
Suffer me not fame to dishonor
To good give; I all that hail in thee,
Thou art a sweetst bud the canthry drink,
What make my eye perfure at all with love of riches!'
Now if aught before thy sight,
Ethel made love, she that st


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, when my love first threatens,
Than with my idle temper points up eyes,
Strikes with wicked felicity, out of my sluggish feet,
Gretting every day a flail of fragrant stem,
Heresy and ungrateful shame, think that this small thorn
Bath for me dries with filth and sweetness of flower;
At which I feast my sorrow baps of berries upon some hallowed ground.
When the widow here is seen,
Seeked by the vagrant of love to see whether she is writ
When you mark the cost of it

