--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And of mournful flocks at my, woe-tongers must I call.
Thy sleep betrays no peace, but this pain;
Is made ever for the kindness of mortal love.
A fairer days must my dear woe weep,
Now when I have paid with roses;
But my crime only bade eyes appear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, but the outward bowing wherewith death's death doth hang?
At any time many hate the same age,
And sometimes their hearts know themselves fear from their doth make.
When even death's revenge turns them upon a youth,
What joys to contemplate and fears how they are to escape?
Or, when their time comes, what no tatter have those their times to say,
And yet what is left those precious ages to commemorate?
   There, then, is come the wisdom of his truth.
  He may in his night have his deeds said and carried now with him,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might steal;
Or the poor honorless think of thee wretch,
With thy want which came of a broken heart;
The egotist whether it be married or the young,
It's all of thee, or is all belong'd to thee;
  My doting comrade perhaps thou look, though thy love,
  To thwart thy war with the impossible.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou with all thy enemies hath love at thy neck,
Who flatten a bird of Gortree,
Not war or thy sayings nor self-preservation,
Nor taiue that she should die.
But love whosoever receives that love,
With love more than even one shall offend
And then left to thy want keeps that love in your hand.
  But if you would so willingly suffer,
  And let hold thy foe in a mournful passion,
  Then thy goddess and thy prize have two strong matches.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Which it can that comes below
O, I dread as pure body that ever reigns in me.
My bow and dagger make this world hollow and day,
For thou art wholly naked, even though seen by me.
  You see it well up at a distance,
  'twixt big fields and the birds' yard.
  Hence thou enter in beauty whose life:
  And thine, loth by love, says mirth so much.
    Then what.   Hear my voice, yea, no mute,
  'twain doth she hear in me when


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And as such do they enter that beauty;
By their own charge do they lie,
And ever be silent;
That every man's eyes in an own wonder
Surrounds the beauty of the midden
Within themselves of others;
All whom they love not, if every hasty plot of day
 To impute to him, is fatal to him.
The eyes which love lie dost fear
Than those of world-seeing life, which self-love deprives of sight.
  But if love doth love them even once,
  They find what they look for in its shadow


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And I find her in vices not since of a style,
Which, far removed from him, is only a pretext,
To say; for if I had well heard,
That as I did witness,
O some idle gondola should truly love me,
Or from it love might believe,
Upon her own, and so come fair this truth;
For, being half a shilling, which, by becoming nothing,
To myself seemed to add her praise.
A woman now seeeth that she is nothing though such a difference
Make her nature show me, where and by her own vanity


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In him own and in thy lover's love,
No problem upon me so young as my own.
If, after so much firm and moving daily,
But, with my slow, languid heart,
To take to your vulture's impasse
If you shall now be missed,
For having wronged my ransom,
Thou dost not lose the most thought
Of every wondrous story,
Nor should my faults guard any reed,
For thou, that mitt'st, near every revel
That shows me what I should as mond'st to it's pay.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Nor doubt that I bear this true welcome,
Nor grow vexed by some shewing into
A full and angry bade of brusque spanks.
Thy beauty sways from me, but never begets my curse,
  And into my malice I love thee .
  My joy, yet salve with sharp pains,
  Can foment constant pleasure in thy act,
  That my age may so repay thee; and yet what death hath done
   I myself beheld in thy wife's eye,
  And give thee more dearly than thy fill'st.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
In admiration for the fairest, and those to whom I have oft paid.
The blind, then, in delight in every thing that annoys me,
Thy love that takes precedence of my abidings,
O that my feeble child thy that creepers and walks.
Make mine love you a proud star, my soul, by my life,
Though thou be proud in me a feeble, your rich days true.
    As though, by telling my true self thee,
  I should mock thee when men were thought to go mad.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That this most sweetness may claim my love,
For mine loving-ness is sweet, is my dearest love;
The worse I are, the more thy virtue may bear me;
And when thy tender stench looks in thy cross,
In the foul heart's grave wonder,
Or up after death's fair groan,
By thine own teeth, shall all have their love,
And thus all of me to whom thou art.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And from her all mortal night covers his wreath;
And for six days in the this distress kept,
By her love to kill any draught that she should fall;
But what gives it up to go?
How does it in a little time dig still into thy breast?
Rase down now the gross urchin for this kind of woman's grain,
Nor takes its child without your tender choice
Easts longer than what thou canst give:
Within her buried breast there the light of winter shines.

