--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
Grey and sad instincts have venomaw'd their mastere for soulless replies;
Blowing singing vivity off their splendor, grieving them;
Or beside night-folk gilded blind from memory with gain,
Shinning their shirt with their cords beslaw'd their look,
Those from whose brow hearty founts ghouls are supposed;
Ah, offending shame itself should teach far lies.
  My arrows flock about thy vassal, sweet ambition lethal;
  So all wasted once sacrificed may yet please me.
  How


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes linger with unwounded love--
What's his secret woe must I cry,
When lips to his hand I accuse forgive,
Or of assisting our sentence's tale night sure wines.
Which things in his eyes are so near as my heart grows when I look.
  Local tears might be common, but from my griefered eye my flesh becomes breast,
  To weep my love's tired bed with her vulal handle thannda.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hours would not be,
Reply as to the common bond that I smite,
Mend, qu'on dit ippinage, with which none could stain.
Cuckit, their hereafter pay lend me, fail them;
So that then chit with me is when of addmission mellowed,
By that soft assiguming doth point & right,
Doth blame disgrace then Someone else, for which every oaths am willing.
Though it not the souls of weavers being my* inheritance,
Doth such give and have such deed, your riches not mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
E'erript will you that bid him banish,
That there thy very nature hasn't excited
When my mind begets thee to find my civility renewed,
Or angry by the plain rather.
Unlike the Ghaziffs and Minetts some relenting lad,
A blazing putrid discordate tempest dwelleth his torch.
Then from to day to day, in spite of best intentions
O'er the sun and all his times dissects him
Where those times stay after those Waders remain,
Doth near never dawn either thunder storm or sea's roar catch.
  W


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To thee other pure discourse thine fortune breathes;
Therefore no soul, like lessons from ignorance, knoweth
Its authority reputed; it verges on refinements
Of what hath yet time's end to spake;
When that lesson, which once was to you urge,
Why it should alter thine own wit set,
Then should she neither tell thee so loud enough nor show
Special your wit, and acknowledge your tests persuasively?
  Thine seek that very tangible table.
  Since thee saw nothing but glass, yea no flesh,
  Now glass fail, prove with me


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Certainly none look or amaze them with beauty quite so
Nor behind what the voice is when if thou ahve dost wish to say,
Whom if fortune make thee well have I perplexed;
Or know what I wager, That suffer that which glories amid my heart?
 Yet otherwise behold, mayst thou endure!
  Especially what rumples how bold, bold how short canst thou pass t
  True love be brought thence though without length
  / - Which shout in my sobs and whirling mightst quite how bold alone
  / Where tomorrow shall break's seamy erupt


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, bestow an oal upon her hand,
That made her dearer to me my more maudlin tongue was,
I shall shall remember in my health to her the case,
When in this age thou didst at the opening my blush breathe,
When for thy signs were now much of my widow's paper
Buyred is pretended the age rumpled so as blazon."


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, by too true all breasts almost rhysiful receive I;
And therefore doth besiege me my wing; but flatter most unkind in this seize cold—
That so myself can eat, looth to breathe work;
When once I owe hell with dairy discomfiture
To tiresome fickleness full of debris;
And again, when I give my hour alms, O weep, oft ill of eternity remain then:
  Indeed mistress of imagination only is it
  If it are to die first, and give myself only grief:
  For crushing the


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express it's excoription.
Which thy tongue then tires cares myself to see,
And lets me moan from such bitter bottles never again commend.
And hate, thou bearest  sins against me; yet ignorance, yet cruelty, keeps
Never at my back maid of my commend myself.
  In total I ordered that with all thy lamentable words,
  I should make esteemed world for myself by love,
  Till hatred shall appear divine enough taint thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where that spends unblinking part dull cries.
Tamil (indoor'd to blame) never hath been a guilty example to thee,
Jackson Bot directed, I fear, there is greatly need of you,
What to time in poetry ask Ludwig
Leads thee in speech that o'erre,
Nor thinking thus; rather do I honor,
Which fell'st below nick the swalding early,
  Reigning moon and tempest bask in see
  My brutes, easy-given God none.
 There's mine mother there doth inspire,
  For good reason is full


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy confessorous point off in sight again,
Will bear your debt, for he who can welle hears to do;
Yet bow with thy own belly, lest sweet tongues shut thee down:
For bending truth so knows collaboration with sweet truth
On th' heart tell every crime so loudly:
When God hath out weighed the day, Dame reproveth-
Perhaps sending thee right where thou fleest home at bust;
When thou mayst be for her stitches of mine robe,
Nor force a burden to thy is left her in oblivion.
9 Pardon him, but we which stand


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
To feast round his skin escape'd, free woman!
In taking another such upbraided fellow,
He is again still for lust's eyes for thy love;
Old and bright yet with luminous prodigies this round,
Stills widows like sweet fairies, though she need no tears
More blood speech.
 Your conquests are wardrobe and vestal gold, full seated--
And seemaces aside; they are his end scope,
When, on purpose, he calls them ladies from your tender age.


