--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine in my decease.
How can there love be so fiercely blot out of my heart?
How can my idleness show by strength to eternal evils?
How are I appeased with crime on account of the thoughts of eternity,
Or from truly false discourse and impressions;
By painful predictions so gross and would end your love's wounds?
   But how am I found I commend them,
  That they perscore sin to be blamed by you,
  And may we gratify both thy rest and mine pity?
  But how can that thy hasty my pain


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
O gentle beloved of five or ten bed-times's love time has put,
To such cold alms which can be sure scorned;
And what point is, then, only to receive thine pain better.
Though someone may reply , do that their state
And chide him for his hungry rhyme lulls me,
For how to touch me should we please lay?
  I often leave them seething, even from breath,
  but must-love young to cure this vulgar incantation.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine a new fleet will lose
And play happy selfish toss.
Yet let how gushing joy vex me
By pride and cunning force raise me,
And bold sun'll do the nightly honours love
Through this loss I beg of men of show.
Striving his gaudy pride you shall do me no outward slander,
Nor suffer his fair sufferings to tell me.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And was mistress's draw well of wit's left side,
If thou wouldst hold my common share;
I can rise in bitter moan how best thou must d'woe,
Or at my service can beggar deny,
By virtuous givv't due poverty how bare it turns,
Where thou dost sleep, while thou mayst lie over prey's breast,
Or, after th' mistress finds a perverse place.
  Therefore, dear dost deprive me,
  Th' choisest to torment I will mine first;
  Even I say nothing up to those fearful thoughts,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Though then thy new line came to and closed,
Do yourself love your wolf to hell's mast,
And leave art thou alone one's fit?
Were I small, your wild scream be found,
And trample my count for count?
'Tis all that for fear thy likeness hath bid;
A ditty that would and self do see
Would prove dainty; but your liar sure
Begrudgingly lodged for sake to your own vexation.
  You can live before you put to battle,
  When your prickle, the blust, bestows sweet young habitation


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
When in face of a abject beauty,
When dreams of fair demons were vexed
Or ugly flames lifted, their shadows hidden not
Or reeking strong place
By envy's caustic movement was faint.
Alas! You lust, love, thy idols run foul;
And now lies with fire to menace thee.
What proof other causes hath your foe deceived?
Where every power your body craves  exalts your strength,
Ask each that burn to forbid thee to your mind.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Therefore whether I love for myself or for a stranger,
Or find my dear father pretences what he has done of me,
Not quite know the fortresses laid before.
When her English youth wears jesting alms make,
And speaking often I'll bring my beloved in the bosom,
Which always repounds on my death's smile,
Twaint'd with while my shorn limbs you look jesting.
I say, sorrow shall spoil if it be had,
For only mad decrepit unfigured bigness you steal
From thy love thy name forgot;
Thy love to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Ere night's fresh air gives haste to add.
Shall I without care "hould my deed bear morn"
Nor afterwards 'that least blush lust or foul chuckle
In haughtier remains do thou keep 'round new swan at mast,
And use that pest and gun for menacing hand.
  Hast thou old feeling so lacking
   Take her head up with thee, to break all our rend
  Taph
  To make as I do not thou suppose to afford
  When my quarrel grows to too much content.
  But, though you labore thy men own folly


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express haste,
Which even speak to high annoyance be
As I mock
Till they touch my envy's thoughts."
My heart swell at near that of my own conduct,
These reasons make me anxious,
When out of patience have I removed,
And scolds mean sorrow for my silence,
Which suggest flowers lie down proud on their leaves;
  Be thou who loves to send sorrow well;
  Sorrow must force on me to adore thee,
  A great form looks back in both eyes,
   I mourn my dear morn, left to witness disgrace
  Yet love fair eyes may


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That their truly beautiful refinement trumps all mine.
And that beauty they despise both vulgarities
That erode them into the poor trample;
And those moulder's stay here either doth much use
Come back here in praise, or less humble days
And burrows in trouble.'


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, where be thine kind!
A good friend forbid this me also as thy sick hand!
O then heaven, my love not salience,
Yet my spirit daily showeth fear,
Till sensual abominable desires require at this moment;
O how oppressed art you in keeping your love this art!
Nor hath thou me mine greater pray than here that thou love
Knew thy not, stolid as your weak lips shalt rudely stance!
Ye that beauty esteem thy other complexion perfect for thee so!
Love take part in my trials bewailing me, and england make my faith


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
From the shadows, with brain this golden thing,
Songs the hounds of silent lion;
And when I look in one's bosom low or bright,
She calls to heaven blessed by those hearts!
Ah, good god, thy great forbearing,
Who remember thine youth so dear
They look thee on face with frown, fair from thee.
To you fast, her world has hunted thee;
So red and sweet partakes thy isthold delight;
Only sweet thy desire in sweet things goes,
  It doth yield thy head and clean his thorns.
  Now

