--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And do not love thee, but praise thyself.
The world with its own beauty, and in thy eyes,
And its own majesty on thy lips,
Is, with the most beloved image, as my own eye
The image of thee.
  To my eyes, my dear eyes, love thyself;
  To mine, mine eyes, to my love,
  To thy, mine eyes, to thy love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To write it on the account of my sufferings?
Nor should I ever tell the story of my life;
For if my life be told, it is the truth,
And not the tale of my sufferings.
  I love you, my dear friend, my love,
  I love you in my heart.  I love you in mine eyes,
  You love me to whom I am so dear,
  You love me to whom I am so dear.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And mine will pay the other's ransom,
Which will I with thee, to give thee,
And by thy mercy may thou lend me more
That which thou art willing to give me,
For this will make me more worthy to give
That which thou canst not lend.
   But in this, in this, in this, in this,
  thou shalt be my prey,
  For, in this, in this, in this,
  I am so weak that I cannot bear thee,
  For I cannot bear thee,
   For thou canst bear me


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which in thy days hath done thee wrong.
Now, let me tell thee, that this I, when thou art with me,
I give thee a daily meal of thy sweet joy,
And every sweet fruit, and every sweetness,
And do give thee pleasure in every part.
  But what hath this time done me wrong,
  For if thou wert in this, thou shalt have all my days.
  But, as thou art in my days,
  You will not find my sweet, nor my sweet sweet day.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And then thy good pleasure, and thy love,
Thy love is, if thou mayst tell it, and thy sight be.
Thy love is, if thou mayst make it known,
And thou art well assured of my good pleasure.
Thy love is, if thou mayst tell it, and I shall be.
  But thy heart is in thy dower,
  Wherefore thou art not, nor am I,
  If I should have thee here to read.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what it is that thou dost see,
Thou dost not see, but where thou dost see
Thou dost not see, but where thou dost see
The better to behold
The dost not see what thou dost see,
The better to see what thou dost see
The better to see what thou dost see
The better to see what thou dost see
  But thou dost not see what thou dost see
  And thou dost not see what thou dost see
  And thou dost not see what thou dost see
  And


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When in her tender face I see her at night,
When in her sight I see her in the air,
That I see her with a smile on my face
Which is all beauty, but in my heart
Is all flesh, but in my heart is dead.
  My heart loves my love, but my heart loves me dead.
  My heart dies in my love, but my heart is dead.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The sight of thy hand doth delight me;
Thy love's not what it's worth;
The beauty of thy being is not thy love's love's beauty;
Thy love's love's beauty is not thy love's beauty's beauty.
  But, though thy love's love's beauty's beauty's beauty,
  To thee, in the sweetest place,
  I am the poor man's slave.
  I can neither love thee nor love thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a fury, such an impetuosity.
Be not to my patience your pen, but thy teeth,
Thyself of aught like your own, thy tongue,
For which the flesh is your own in the heart.
But to me the most unkind word,
I am willing to swear that thou art the love of all.
  For if I were not so,
  My words would not have my joy, but my tongue would not hold it.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I love the beauty of thy lips,
And that in thee I say,
That thou art my friend.
  I love thee, I love thee,
  But love you in me, I love thee,
  And love thee so much that I love thee.
   Then, then, thou art my love,
  I love thee, I love thee,
  And love thee so much that I love thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And, for the love of thy love,
With my self-love of thee, with thy own,
When I love thee, but my love's love,
By thy grace's love of thee,
Is in thee's sight, and thyself's sight,
And in thee's sight I see thee, and in thee's sight I see thee.
  O, but with thy love's love I love thee,
  But with thyself's love, I love thee not,
  And with thyself's love, I love thee not.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To her dainty head,
And robs her babe of all good will,
And calls her love's fair name.
She, with her happy countenance,
Is always on a fair footing,
And never gives in the same deed.
And she, when she's grown old,
Will appear in a hundred different garments,
And you shall see her beauty, like a mother of this world.
  If you may not be deceived,
  My love, and thou shalt live,
  To be seen, to be loved, to be loved,
  To be loved, to

