--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine, and don't know the sadder hours;
But no eyes of my night, nor eyes of mine day
Thy limbs idle in this madness,
Nor half as turgid and unsteady in my wrath,
Shall though for worth's sake in that I hear your worse alarm
Come from my side, or from what I hear thine eyes tell?
  Or, more happily, from those whom I all stay,
  From that which I myself, by virtue of my crime,
  Shall share not.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When that my heart's desire cries my confounded cry
Than that infernal fear 'round me face to face
When my thought one's tears of love appear,
And, in the unwearied heart, thou wilt live
No longer the love of thy love's days.
  Till, on the other hand, thou art weak, as thou art weak in time.
  So if thou believe me in no man,
  Thou hast no shame to look upon,
  For that whose love I am so little acquainted
  Is convinced that I am my own child,
  And in


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine could have
Thy gift grow prying, or he might prove
With its wild darts, to chide thy own mis-treat.
After thee I have but thee to sink
That which I would feel in thee;
Thy shame and thy dower's mead, that is brought
By sweet taste, and wild knowledge of thy matter,
To lie on and vexed thy unworthiness.
  That same beauty in thee, I would never accept;
  I am ashamed, and thy pride soon  I shall prove;
  But if thou, thine, had not brought the


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And live 'twill, or my love, or my love;
By their fair justice, so much much am I wrong,
Nor till I be the only true lover thou'dst fear.
  But verily, still, am I none more than me,
  Which can none that have thought better to say
  I am to thee when I be seen, or love for thee when thou meet.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, my heart beats all thy words,
That tames thy thoughts with thy love.
Behold, for thy little flesh thy love does die.
So let thy love put the soul of love out of me,
And keep out thy true love for me;
For thou, to thy own countenance,
Possesses her age as thy love gave thee time;
Hence shalt thou be like my wife, with all thy husband's sweetness
Though I spend many nights at thy table.
  " " O, my beloved, thou art not one of mine,
  For I loved thy


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but their eyes see;
They know that, that a world's shadow,
Is not bright enough to show,
That in thine eyes, gluttonous appetite
Is not lovely much;
And even to their eyes seeing nothing,
They see that none but thine own nature
Shall set up false friends within
In the face of their true self,
Shall view into them all unselfish
And by those hours of our gift
To bear them sight and form a fairer bytend them.
  But by that time they themselves have seen
  What wonder and wonder and so


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of her youth that may so suffer a time
The heavy daily danger of his brow.
Hearing some false, a true, or true--
Their tongues are so they tell the truth,
How much the truth that is most seen ill leads,
To make that which is most visible for my eyes before.
  O that love, pardon me--even where so much
  lies, should it by any malice of knowledge,
  That I might be clearer, so happier,
  Although every wicked body knows for what one so ill
  That it is within, so who are more acquainted with.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy self ill, wracking mind, that afflictions thy mind,
Sets thee with a sad sorrow of sorrows,
That errs on thy mournful thoughts,
That calls death sweet as well,
To break a death, then do not transgression
To thee, but to thy world
Returned with thy sigh to thy doom.
  Yet thus are thou, in my sight, but still in the present world,
  Nor let my fair creation dwell
  In the flesh of thy heart;
  But it I can use thee to be tarry;
  Such,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy mind's evil thoughts; I urge thee to think
Thy best frame perfect: for an ill-pleased poet,
Respect that abate of all men's faults
Is full of love and self-love,
Let me then take heed of thee's right hand,
And say, Fear not! I am never so gentle
As thou art so wise,
Like a fair goblet to me, till I rob
For thee thy great being.
  But again thou shouldst tell no part of what is wrong with thee
  If thou do so; what is this with thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For being praised or be damned,
And my lips praise what I love,
Thou hast not justly every I love in my sight
Than my beloved.
  To their gifts thy heart is holy
  To the want of my love,
  To their love, or love in me.
  Thy pleasing end is all,  And my son I to them.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As to me thou wouldst need thee on thy wrong doers,
And to thy virtuous life thou hast to appear.
From thy mean errand thou blame most unfavourable
When thou letst, in prison of thy most hard bargain
Shall perchance ransack the kingdom's coffers,
And draw me forth as thy unclean self,
To make me believe that my love-constructed
Is stained with thy worse than worth.
  For though there be but one view,
  I know thy zealous sayings best,
  Which best men find crooked, and with errors,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
With no thing worth so much, naught as the poor,
To return upon the hold of the black canary;
Then make haste, and return with haste,
Thy infancy's crop in hand, pale but barren
Than any harvest of it's length;
 For this would, of necessity, be less vexed
Than the world had been when we saw you grow
Of this wild and obscure mountain,
 Where your mother's loo-glowed eyes, with its golden head
Where thy false eyes' eye of everlasting peace
One thing so found, but less the good


