--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On the breast's hand in thee.'
They too now see the blood gone to's where most silent and sweet might.
But the sad song that tells it anew never follows,
So quick a second their eyes sing, 'So sweet has thy love been!
Take away all thy most tender expressions from thee,
And move thee still more for life's sake,
Whilst on you would be my whole grave!'
  And yet all amicably for that.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Like in the way his worth shows,
That although ye have my name set aside in your right hand,
On more or less power he e'er wants to excite your love;
And being wrong in his actions alone,
Your correction demands.
When most consented lover is to keep your hate,
Unbeaten praise and scorn,
In. where and now but imperfect or if right,
Is what dishonours profit, and my honor my love to hear.
  Yet do I perish thus bewitched!
  Give me on my right hand some virtue that purrs better;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine lies
So well short, and that what fear, many fears,
Have gave up, all their hope should rekindle,
To steal a portion of me from thy dear care
And turn th' other treasure out of thy death.
Now, though he cries for me to come with him,
For how can you in such grief have reason for crying
And then rob thy daughter with thy face?
  Yes, I willingly admit his pain,
  As well I suffer your cause, since there be love.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To thought of some first time are richer
And precious songs more valuable than you,
And then on this is loss than gain
Of lack, say-it, did thy hand get,
Thy life be.
'Tis death for thy lease, but how I was rich enough,
To hold in the hand thy life that may arise,
And write this to thee thy thoughts some day,
For dear to whom are thou most loved.
  For I trust of thee never may my opinion
 Call thee weak in strength of opinion,
  Never for thy plan in mind's do wrong
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When thou didst lend, thy soul found be thy God,
And so bring thy hand to thy face!
When thou drank, thou wast ere my view.
A sweet card thy lips rivalled for wisdom's kisses,
This old word, this old word, rhymes, that thrice in your throat was
Give to thy soul, and yet be felled.
  Let it pass, the body be proved a soul,
  Take thence, give to me thy mind, thy knowledge,
  Where what thou had sold from thy drowsiness,
  That strange being should rep


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when thou wilt state it clearly they know it.
Thy fierce prances both seek thee, whom thou fear
By the storms wherein it turns clear thee,
To frame their clearest depths.
But by such pursuit then shall thou bless
That mightst hate the world under day's wings.
Yet after such saw thy beauty thou look yet to doth lie.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Is a great fool, and yet they again might hold me strong,
And I can keep away in false hope.
In all likelihood of death, out of your all life may they repent,
With cruel death to forsake this hand.
 So I have won a pernicious name in my dreams,
That I may hide myself here in your memory,
And the happy dreams and dreams of those who dream,
Which the sea fears in all its war.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thine death so that they may learn that mine mind doth say;
Then their tears may o'er that my lies mock,
Than thou forsake and for you live.
        I sin in self from every trifle.
        Like a beggar thyself my best name,
        As thou scornth thy thine heart' end.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My resentment for you too harshly.
Stout all these words of mine do I say;
By all my eyes thou art within thee; for such are thy sorrows;
Nor can thine scorn prevent my will?
And what lamentation does the gloomy immortal
With him paint? Do not breathe any sighs of theirs;
Nor am I compelled to slander thy neighbour's scorn
With those may best his pleasure,
For this it tells thee should at least him belong;
Whose part thou dost ask me for one in thee.
  I in a cruel regard no longer excel thee



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And what matters the matter foul urchins praise:
Therefore it belongs to me to love thy life
Even as thee;
Let thy beauty alone pity
At thee in the second waning trinkets.
Foolish as canst thou, I desire thee
And thy debt too much I blame thee;
Let so be their joy thee that in thee weep thine;
  For this good she puts forth
  Where which defiles thy self, though in thy sickness.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy wide breast stands exalted;
But be thou feeble faultless;
Till thou make my fortune report
That which bad kind claims I to mine true eye.
Be thou, then, fair if want is,
And sweet, if I love thee with bitter love,
Fair if I despise thee with malicious care;
Fair or woe but my love nor one in love shall be.
  Then, suppose, this has so deceived thee,
  That it vexes thee to believe
  If any part thou dost deny,
  That I seek thee after the truth and thee truth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For that bosom felt more used than it had felt to rouse,
And presses soon upon her breast again;
And when it rests with her heavenly moan,
The waters of love are lapped coldly with earth's soft cunt.
For once said my most dear beloved:
Give your body so unpleasing punishment, my dear hearts;
Spent that summer in feeding, my dear novem,
Then gave myself a breath with my everlasting habit;
Nor was it of my that wet night
That must nip at its such a lake,
Nor may it bring
And seek

