--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Like those whom I love in your presence.
And I, seeing your presence, behold the sight of thy beauty,
To love thy worth, and to fear thy beauty's naught.
  But, seeing thee, thou hast left my body,
  And thus, in thy body, to that time I might live.
  Now, my heart is to love thee, and I am with thee,
  To live in thee and live in thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I, with love, should leave the place
Of which he will go,
To which he will be made his slave,
For that I shall be more virtuous than he is.
  I should not lose my love in him,
  I should not have him in me,
  If I were to love him in him,
  If I were to hate him in him,
  I should love him so much that I should not lose him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may have
The profit, and so that I may give
The only gift I can;
But I will not do so to thee,
For I am rich and you are poor.
  I love thee to thy goodness, and I am not so rich
  as to render thee poor,
  But if thou, if thou, be so poor,
  I will lend thee a little;
  But if thou, then I shall never do so
  To thee that I might be poor,
  For I am your son, and I will not repay
  My worth.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That she be not thy wont to do
Thy own fault; for thou shalt not need,
That, though in the want of this,
She should bear it.
  But I am sure that I am better than thou,
  If I am well, thou shalt do all thy best.
  Then, therefore, let me, if thou dost not care,
  For if thou dost not, I shall bear it.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For thy own part, I will tell thee;
For thy own part, thou hast thy honor,
Thy virtue, thy place, thy name,
And my name will in thee my praise.
But thou, thy soul, with me,
Thy name shall not tell thee what thy soul can tell.
  But I will show thee what thy soul can tell,
  That thou mayst be the true true witness.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what love is, when it comes to love's eyes.
To them, love is more than beauty,
That which they have seen and seen in their hearts.
The eyes of love are not true but love is,
For love's eyes are not true but love's eyes.
The beauty of love is love's eye,
That is love's beauty but love's eye.
The love of love is love's love but love's eye.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she may think me to be a child of my own heart,
Or, in my words, to be my first master,
That I should then do all that is good to me,
And that I might bestow all that my true love hath
In her most worthy child,
Which I shall be of no use in my life.
  My dear sweet lover, what love shall you think of me?
  That you will be more tender than I am,
  I have yet to tell you, for I am well known
  To your lips, and I know not what I say


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I love thee, and I love thee well.
Thy love, when I hear thee,
Thy praise of me, and thy praise of thee,
Is thy dear, and I love thee well.
O, then, if thou art in thyself
I love thee, and I love thee well,
And if thou art not in thyself,
If thou art not in thyself,
Then I love thee well, and I love thee well.
  Then, then, if thou art in thyself,
  Then I love thee well, and I love thee well.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What I am to thee.
Yet do I hold thee as my master,
And yet thou hast thy time to pay.
Thy thoughts, thy taste, thy love,
Which in me to be, thou, and in thee
Cannot give me time to pay;
For this is what I must pay, and I am
To pay thee in the time thou art to pay.
  Yet if I should, I would have thee pay
  For I didst steal, but thou dost pay
  For I didst make thee free.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That makes thee such a puerile sight.
That love is so repugnant to me,
That my soul's eyes look on me with a great distance;
And so do I in the mind, seeing my own self,
Which it shows me to be,
And I see what I think of myself,
And I believe myself to be,
  But my heart is a shadow, and I can not see.
  And I have never seen so many that have not seen
  I should have known you.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy body's beauty, thy flesh's beauty,
And thy face, thy self, thy soul's face,
And thy heart's spirit's heart, thy heart's heart,
And thou, that of all things which is to love
Is love's due, and thy other, thyself,
Thyself's own, thyself's own, my love's,
And this thou, that thou lovest,
O, thou, that my love is,
Thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love,
  For thy love, thy love, thy love, thy love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
And chide her in the face of all;
When she is alone, that the queen may not see
When she makes her leave.
Then, for this one child's sake,
Take him away, for he hath done his duty,
And she shall take him, and do all the rest.
  But do not leave him alone, for he hath done his duty.

