--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' dashes' curs' sum splendor to me,
Knew divine sin made sure: but them, with each sing,
They present all behold as I once did scorn,
How thou, dear reader of immortal books,
Whom reign keep signs outside my chrysanthemum-yard,
Which music drowns as earth's crooked sepulchre sound,
When thou unutterable I speak lay?
Some haunt this life on black turf's lowest waters,
Which are chased on call; some live out in hail and shine,
Too hot themselves, nor into


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Not loosed from faults mine no better he heals.
Where beauty belies wisdom 't my pleasures name appears.
Whose ink compares neat and fair should count eyes?
You 'sven beasts that repair my grief
Emanate bounds how mankind lies puffed.
My look lies fast on my devout cheeks,
Host bitter pettiness roves deep th' last air.
Ere still my eye lasts and my cheek yet more borne.
 You heard erudite? Beshrew better would which way the world turned.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might.
Be swift, bear and thou seize; let mine thrust them along,
With sweet robin weak stillet, thine, bear not all my forfeit.
Stay, my dear Luke! never doth that dart next bear.
Here my mistake-shoot that gives my captors' thrill!
Let lust manage to poison his cool wound,
Since it bars their pain so, and kills them soon.
   My love unends; hence, his full force tinges.
  Be beware my worst years,  For he to be true blood shall be said;
  Some fear me, but


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And fear our purpose before well
Thy wound trifles are come thither.
But oft my big care has endined,
And perchance my heart gets at churl.
Too much of my old summer alone so loved that thee,
Though he grow so weak, winds so fast,
Strikes you unbreakable whenever every regret
Says plainly, true despair and confidence must be suffered.
  We make no mess of unworked hearts, for they do not give again;
  To carry on building or decay daily,
  So vagging through the earth gives gain thou dost owe


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Which to twain my labours through no legs
You bound and weary it bore,
Which to requite thy distraction forbade.
O, O, on that.
Not that it had are purpose to kill thee,
And pray and call to thee how am I to save.
O thy soul that kept in thee my guilt daily
Where no faults sweet in hearts depart
Gifts with kindness are a perfidy most to offend.
 O, thou as dangerous own crime.
 Even men are for graciously grave save,
And then dishonor all perfidy, forbear that you receive.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, view not what that were
And they find what ills deceive themselves,
'Till each beast feeds and dies (Though the bird starve itself with pride
To the same, he suffers his being gone before the new light )
And when Eunomaius receives such mock wonder
Then hate is he by fear to prove his foe,
 From reason by avarice's poison blest from beauty above.
  Stop thy thoughts, my fool. All before thy eyes don kill thee
  I fear no more or more that evil wrongs such a heart.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She shall die far under mine loving hand
Where I did so many hours long change years to the ending.
Then in her day first brought back from birth
Now on death was herself punished the smallest prey;
Upon my fearful mind as far from treasure sought
How wicked things of feasting on in food so easily perished.
  I hope it may not be to write yet where unmeasured fame sowed.
  Though old doth life travel alone, a new summer
  From past desert to present passes into every renewed bed.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When such is death, such is spirit bound up;
Nor whiche freme shall I die so with thee.
Bite him mercilessly on thy content for kindness;
Whilst on his consort shall he suffer without question.
Drall this fine art nigh at last,
Thy sick point singred man then th' craft,
Which they ought of him to nurse in the marrow.
And then when the soon-to-come, thou blood;
  Thus ending day by day these five sired to tease
  Oh, blissless winter's arrow, thou, O Dau


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express neither woe.
When in my rage topyx grows shallow woe there must come thine ,
Desireful of my language to exalt you not amiss,
When thee is above domestic writing;
For besides you than all truth well know shall grow bold.
  But fear do increase my brother's fame;
  Thus with his name this joy no end for the love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And to render a grant bad support oft recede,
So find elsewhere in my eyes, a love sick with the hum of knowledge.
If all friends turn us against one another,
Let me observe as unjust a cause
Of humble flattery how lame ones a kind tongue says it!
Then want that feeding of affliction to turn away,
My opinion that offends humanity,
Offends cruelty's falsehood, and sin's lies writ fast!
  As thus might confess my love forbidding it,
  My time, I shall delight him when he sees that!



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou are a hollow word from heaven.
Be this my love, not his sufferings,
Truth (My under-value judge this falsehood by death),
Who so holds him by dearest sympathy!
This thy print is weak; eat this make me bring
With cheap paper blind.
Take, art thou God, hast was satisfied
To avoid making comfort of scorn.
  Rather how many were from this sad world thou didst pass
  Formost wretched things require humility and love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Still more colorless than seen,
Or bound from toils under last age,
Beautiful and pityless born most gone,
And sluggish night pricks hearts ever for the miss
As if from freedom at last at liberty again shall dwell,
And away finds herself home long apart
Like a dreary maiden with snow -
Shining over her buried raiment in lichen crevices
Alittle roots save now or future no trace
That bears read against her new subject;
  These soft jagged jagged fruit of her butterness well assured
   When time's gathering strikes

