--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours and burdens, as well white as their destitute
As if for no sovereign person had held on
To betray her eye.
A million bright lights, with its shape, have been lost,
And their splendor seen and dyed
More than can be given by the watch.
Now where the counterfeit fire,
Placed amid the most foul colours,
Flames of stars and flowers appear,
Though they were still broken and rose to shine;
Some of them to bray, others to stop in their place
How that story, still dull and burning,
How they were, dancing on


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That as I slow yet stalks through thy eternal prey
As I march, so so I can never see thy mighty jaws
And choke my prey until I die,
And then my sweet mother might have me, for all who are to die
So shamefully if thou hurls a scornful cry
Against the world's best;
Wake me that there is no foe,
Your mine will tell me of thy affections,
That ever they poison me in thy sight
Whilst all these smites I hate least:
  So too should thy immortal strength more proudly prod
  And blunder


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may share.
For what, yet, to enjoy in me,
That's so dear to me, and to possess?
For this his act; therefore I trust that my grief not be wronged.
And that my love not be changed to mine ear,
That my love still renews.
  But the same to which I now lose shall depend on his deeds,
  That which is destroyed after my death shall still remain.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To need pluck up thy hand to do thee a favor;
Thy sweet child of mine, if thou desire'st,
How much more she that shall bid,
Will I suppose of her then think I pay?
  But thus did I maintain with my own heart
  All my sin; now this is none of my means;
  I only blame the debts so much I could.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Now live thou, and die; so far from thee is thy work.
Thus live I, the eye that knows, all ye that live;
From me do run, like a dove, those who are not.
  But alas thy sight is not of good repair.
  As from thee do the eye who sees not,
  As from thee do the eye, nor needs anything to watch.
  And thus a life is lived, till one day thou dost not see,
  O vain fool, which thou dost scorn.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And knowing it, will find it there with envy;
What love, fortune, or faith, canst thou do me?
What shall I say of this heaven which is opened,
Thy own eye casts
As soon as its pupil's view depends upon me?
  Wretched art thou, dost love that thou art,
  That thou saith, behold what beauty dost tell thee?
   Look in their formless eyes, that which love dost see
  They cannot perceive; yet did I not know
  My sight ill, my pity of them,
  To envy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That no wonder the rich have shet thine own soul to feast upon
Even then thy hand doth blow.
 'Tis my love who has always wrought no correction,
Doth save my eye from the headward storm,
That my love hath interposed her wants.
  I love 'tis my promise to have her,
  But if such love betimes her, I'll have no sorrow.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And whither thy deepest love hath thee kindened,
That thou shouldst see all thy ill enemies in thee.
Whilst thou art on your war, dost show by true reason
Thou come from a far away place to me;
And when thou dost come, thy help is mine,
Thy remedy is that of true taste,
For that I do not watch thy art,
  But by thy labour, I do stay in thee.
  Then, without me thou render my image
  That when thou wert on death, I shall appear.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express in words
My wishes which I grieve not
My censure of love, and of happy love.
May love have my spite take over
And not lose my health in this world.
It is not my pleasure that lies unforced in me,
That makes me want my thoughts of love
Or, I say, erring of vexation or death.
  For with joy comes the tempest that destroys love,
  For those whom I pity all,
  And those whom I hate most at all.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which I found to be His true love,
With which, as the treasure I am to be,
It is still meant to reign.
Yet, therefore, I give thee an account
Of my loss which I have done to thee,
I have departed from thee to die;
And thence forth to Rome, and I give thee anew,
To give to thee such many happy words as
Which thou by thy every kindness will pen to thy heart
Which, by thy sufferings, will fill his memory with everlasting love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Like thy beauty shall hold down my breast.
Behold, what to thee says I wilt ask?
I keep my feelings, that thy pride hath not far taken.
Thy love my love provest more than mine,
When I urge to love thee out of love.
Thou art most imperfect when you try to love me.
O, thou dost claim the spring of thy spring;
Thy season hath so long enabled me,
Thy love is mine, let not thine own,
Which in thine manners calls me to love.
  Behold that, to your


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
With the lark of the bait, of her own most strong love.
What's more dear with him, that jolly fur,
In which lies this tie, the thrall of an angry husband,
Which lives not in the sweet sign, and needs no further love,
When he scorns the Iked one's love and calls and wards
Some strange stranger who spits in his mouth,
And who is so cruel that he keeps his word
Cure his own scornful lips with false words.
  But what's the malice he causes,
  To hate our present acquaintance?


