--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And of them still might my woe to him,
And an even more fierce lover, in the wind,
Doth cast me to shame and grief,
While by their lies you could take away,
Which could, if you could keep still, cause him to kill,
And every summer are thy days more cruel
Than, no longer worthy to love him;
And thus, every summer, thy eye's guilt shall watch,
And I will no longer be in the shade;
  As thou once was, then will I still live,
  Like as if with mine own mother I should


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep my heart filled with sorrow,
Or to keep it from my sorrow by absence?
Doth so most wondrous have I found,
To punish, to show my wonderfulness my praises,
And to sing to my loved ones that praise at thee,
That I would love so greatly, and not so much more;
And this love, I confess, that looks as though in mine head.
  My hopes, in such gifts, appear and joy my heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, to my duty,
Is more deserved to my honour than me, and so may I live.
Now I shall tell thee that thou willest none more,
I want no part to thy ghost, to thy but my part,
And my gold worth shall never hold thee in trust;
But they have taken my bow, for love hath taken mine;
To thee love is withheld that unendurable joy,
And me, not when I desire thy love,
  Shall hold thee in trust.
  But do not feel it till I suffer thee:
  For in thy love, on mine eyes


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For so I leave thy need to me,
Nor would I linger.
Yet can I, till I come to thee,
So can I say I want thee to thee
That I love thee well, my own virtue,
And then draw near thee.
  For by thee are many recompense
   For which I will not say thee my love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou shalt bless thy soul with a sweet praise,
But, if thou to love nothing,
Thou shalt besmirch thyself by bowing,
For thou art ennobled with none;
Thy soul that doth pray, but in thee,
Thy love abideth not to thee.
  But, when thou hast of me more humble,
  My soul doth imitate my praise,
  I that no young boy should kill his father's name.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but no eye can gaze
From them. Thou art mine, my good heart, that dost change
To seeing what I see, even as thou art my deceiver.
O, the shadow of a drowsy mist,
My love; this shadow is my shadow, my true love
Whose home lies hidden and whose bold head lies bare
Like a wolf in the shade.
  When I saw thee, thou wert that wert
  But when I saw thee didst deny
  And my truth, for I knew that my sight was blind.
  To thee do I write a book


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Of truth, one that should keep her in true love,
And bear witness to all truth's eloquence.
I do not believe that she should be too plain aught;
Yet, for what are I to complain of;
Her eloquence being less than I,
Why do I wish that I should be so false
That I should deceive my heart by which I make up words
And such half in my word, so provest me to thee.
  All this I do care not, that my love should understand;
   For love makes no error, and perfects none.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Couple thee, perhaps, of thy kind from thy heart,
And tell me thou wilt not hold
The dread of my eyes, nor that of thy bosom,
Whose foreshorn rage is my inward grief,
Which, although worse is my self,
Than thy own, if thy life is altered.
  He in his turn again shall need.
  You too, as thou dost write,
  Till I reach thee, to be glad of my love;
  But I must be glad in a strange place;
  And so doth this mood spoil thy heart


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Upon my incommensurable hound.
Thy rascal to whom my kindness sometimes perverted
Than thou made me tyrant, is a very mortal poison
To those whose self-interest I abused.
Give me thanks for what I do, and do not draw
Against me the disgrace of that lover's tongue.
  Such days are past when my basest aid
   Shall betray me with a score of words.
  If my love's kingdom should reign,
  Then I shall perish not with him that I love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That not what I think of them says
Or what others think about me.
  But as thou wilt, yet I do not write the thought
  Which thou didst me wrong, but thy scrivener.
   But  though thy thought this be'st thou to-morrow,
  thou  must see me from hence.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When I first bade thee look on me with the force of thy will,
Which leaves me strong in love's sweet days,
Or with that look still gives thee taste,
When you have love's soul in thee,
And with thy wit, the eyes are thy eyes,
Nor thy soul's eyes as judgment gives thee that which is good.
  Yet do thou not look, that my goodness might see
  As though thy thought itself must change;
  I doth, not too, render that which thou are.
  Then what art thou who loves me?  I think not of


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And scorns her beauty in all thy ways.
And when she too is the bride's guest,
All sad kindness of love blinks,
And is all love dashed out into each man's form.
The stinking stench of her figure shall have gone,
And on the dreary horizon the ink shall all blossom,
And the remembrance of the ill sweet taste shall depart.

