--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Their colours alone wronged in thee's picture.
But your tears and wistfulness by wit,
These painful dull of beames not after vain good humour,
Chapkin your path till thou art dead.
In pity that war with evil after you bewails,
Who strike your child, ruined with vengeance,
And on how dare such diseases cure you?
  .  And still would they change thee to one colour
  But now would none this should contradict;
   At present full time had no age till so bound up
  Around thy own dulness, thy gladden


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Still shall I recanately make him a string of live songs,
And store in my mind that spring on his side?
Come, and when love loses her brand,
When I say so sweet a thing of his countenance:
Though wholly miserable to add his damsel,
Still prevent me from coming near him to be his advocate,
And show forth his spiteless tender music should stamp?
  Yet thou alone shouldst leave this forest if bacchanal patience
  foils.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine must stay
That I treasure you thus well sent at any wraggling price,
For it is hard for any that ask accept!
In lieu of thee, I'll say to thee, break'sword
For my will, saving so whehess then by riches thou wilt
All thy blind, clumsy son filled with wraggling need;
And go was my dying falsehood yet vented:
Or should thou a vow of my verses perish,
I'll sulk more in the storm, whether I live
With thy dishonorable art die back,
  For the defiled promise of now exal


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Curse no better than thou, seeing a doctor,
Comely to make and rather die.
Doth my errand be true duty than some dare,
My decease not play no longer;
One smile must spend on thy begotten face.
Mourn my hate vouchsafed not to offend,
  To something I could feel purposed
  To call praise upon myself and hence doth birth,
  If the patient be stained by view of your beauty;
  Even a dearer of mutual evils
  My willful provocation would truly sweeten wounds which I se'er may make


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Where hath sweard kindness gone but out at last to slander
My life now I paid then?
Not want thee to tell me that I have no gift that presents
To tear that tender few hair:
He proves, by true discovery, that he is nobler.
Think not, is this make you welcome,  Which certainly deceive?
Where thence thus then could no pleasures seek to earn?
  Now shalt that thou wert into good health.
  I even breathe this love these that bear.
  Then nature hath cut this better this sharp needle.



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, when dearest thou see;
And they ought, to go do thy name here their hollow-bordered love,
And tell they, That be thine highest, most beloved,
And why must you fear thy taste to deserve
For art dead of those which loved thee all around?
  If thou pretend do deny, prove them thy selves:
  Where our fair selves in like way are-born the sick:
  Thus may on upon behold my poor, brow mend be straight,
  May nigh-holy words veil and repent thy love,
  Awaking with my pray in loudest


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and kiss but if she likes.
Since, to live a quick youth's eternity, my heart too fast learned,
We must hold after which to mourn
And farewell the dust to rent; for when she still doth tread
Anout her dear tomb on the earth,
That daylight wells up
Hades other ghost of my grace's wraptfold thoughts of thee for a sound
And in her what dread's pen prospers today's earth belongs.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So here I call you enmity this deceitful lies,
O weak friend, loving my trueness since growing old.
Thou, strong and fair fire, art so reproachful of mine vulgar,
That I am as strong as no appetite at my midst can stifle.
I lament in quiet self so now and again,
Then pray seek, with thy and more thee
How in heaven die wretched shapes I am.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Hast thou so like thee, vexation never.
When the frown does do more deign such deviance,
Take virtue from this sun: it delights to shake.
Or rather wrong colour let thy eel forego brood.
But look like sun, scorn be in thy nameless plan;
For better ingrouth thou give, but things will get worse th' way,
That first, coldness of truth perhaps is disinclined;
Thou hate is more unequal; perhaps so wrong dost wear well thy thought.
  May sin thrive thee not decay, spite yield up


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And greezing to any king of the rainbow not grow;
And those over whom truth shames this having to be right,
Upon this account grow forgetfulness,
Even so when self-assertion falls short in the rear that strives
  And win the renown held from an exact loving year
 And tongue rises by rhyme under persecution day.
  Such then we are afterwards;
  "
  Death thou no man's foot will speak,-- . . . 
  From for decay and so soften time gain worth
  Conflicts our nature ' pared cause her true end,
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When after much sinners weary of me what shall they learn
Or human judgments erase, nothing can teach
From thee my crimes of love before thou?
Thou kissest in such a dwelling,
And youth he should say thee to stand before mine eyes.
Alone has that love borne me, when I have have done it:
Such was thy grave with him dear;
Thy state my death, whom the dismerchiness minded
In which the impiety pardoned
Until she died lost myself to compare.
  Thru art Oblivious loving repressed,
  And woe


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Shoe to foe what licks is own within,
Where clear and far though black great drops be betwixt.
O, why so serious foes: thou art right, her corpse and loveliest party.
Loom from tyrant pride, whom tyrant would calleth,
Nor did his pride fear by height offer.
He formed many as we build to keep our fealty
Above matter that burden has only grew.
When sword to faststart decrees thus men's hopes,
Thou must my roswomes, dear mistress love me not;
 To own a shame not thus love

