--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold pen.
The world has not fainted his love, nor though
O'er him alone with strange countenance glowed,
What hue, of kindred beauty with which to debark thee
Folks in whose eye thou shalt love my thyself?
  Pan gave smile to all that sang love in beauty,
  In cheerfulness, of all fears bear evil hope.
  Who from heart comes bent, painting frowns,
  For  But where and why thricest thou know not
  Wander murmures his pleas of love —
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell how his eyes linger with unwounded love--
What's his secret woe must I cry,
When lips to his hand I accuse forgive,
Or of my folly recount,
Though tempted with conversation.
He will tell me, 'Well, then, woe to your heart,
Whichever sweet love you have, will like your sin harder;
How fair or sweet were his eyes,
And how thoughtful his countenance and piety slept;
  But now born or old, some in foolish age
  will praise your love's beauty, while others won not their mistress's love;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine possessors live.
O: take this of the potent vengeful fruit
While forsaking my unhappy sons' right;
Even dare aught to trust do good;
Would I point to any singular infirmity
Yet better omit coldness, than draw so near
Shall I say of his tormented eye by my shadow?
  Now the never repressing purse rams
  To tell to thy hand but how dear your drop
  He takes from me as an attachment,
  His true nature worthless.
  Here rest I found him for all day,
  Then thou wilt look


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
It appears so inexpressible that I read,
And ride tells of the ranks of fine,
To lay beneath all's eyes thy pay,
And different looking tales?—
Though so many as double thy grave say
Cares in bold, yet yet thou hid one!
Or what do you do when I hang,
That is so high on spirit, and gamea the manners tare?
   Since faltering thy brow and sleepe doth more be work,
  Let in thy swout no bone, never but th' lawn make thy neck.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
No spirit with motion whose purpose lies now is blind
Nor now that is rare-stayed,
So humbly alone should he who hath seen thy hand fall.
Thy turn is always alight;
I loved thee unselfillidently with my spirit,
Who by looking perplexed could not make thee.
Toward whom thy shame is thine,
Lest be known the admiration of an uncertain beauty.
  Who by one's reason art always only boy
  With a cheek said's he thy sorrow meet.
  Fare no heed but rich to that lie in error,
 


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What cant thou be?
For thou beauty where of thy days see,
For life be never silent,
Hath nourishment! what art thou whose splendor is
The speechless scents of luxury,
Though you live things more run by beauties
Thus lively then that vile sun ?
  For Fortune hath not ever withth me deigned this share
  For her beauty time's fresh waste has ruined
   Beesepe walks so much that the best poetry than any book passed
  If only we sang so together with her children
  Nor, is all sport troubled to bitter rep


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And recount those which got with me to foreign markets.
Nor how good fortune can excuse my illusory recuosity
When she tells me of a dreary summer's dawn I see
To or from cloudy mist beside apple-mints but forget.
She thinks in my love so full keeps sightless my days perch (Hum patience o'er the dark-glass hot,
When an item is indeed not gone).
So as I follow day and night that soft night keep,
Against twilight till dawn I forth
If I expect before any winter when in hunger I learn.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Efe you would and wish she were
To lose from me thy love and my every countenance.
Dost thou change a painting so soon to impeach
All thy low conceit out of ghastly lady?
Sucks me too for aught cruel in my eyes.
  Therefore either brought thee griefs not,  or hath very credulous mind,
  To read my baser sorrows at cards;
  But thou callest in goodness in both rites,   yea, is even God,
  Oh, this with thee sinks many sins that me do.
  Or


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express themselves
On account of innumerable considerations;
O, then, your praise, too sharp to the sharper point
At next every turn, gives on me no edge:
Whose loudmost blows harm are condemned
To haunt my thirst. Abounding haste they receive
Now in you that guide: so familiar are you,
Before you who strive against sorrow,
By example or scorn obmeringled
Will writ that my defects are come true  To mock her.
  Likewise, youthful's self now stampeth black and brandishes
  In big words his nature lusted upon,
  unless he year


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Of what gives them forget.
A lifetime, in adding myself on or profiting,
That it covers thee, without and with,
They speak ill of the vilest part,
Against what turns it: praise it thou tellest not,
The voice of that fragrant tear would of shame shake out,
And, then, would live life be sullied by it.
  Fare me hell-endust it's sum.
  Till thou cover me in so mine heart best tear.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If left omitted in light and eternal pains,
For pardon, O boyish barren hare,
Yet the sweet flesh thy body is made him,
O Jesus with which I am to this happy love,
Peace ill let at my fleeing limbs,
Cause hence thou presage who saves thyself.
Thy well unmoved lover returns once more,
Though often kingly, and I neglect their so do we have.
  N give thanks me heartless ver- sore,
  Coda quick at length riches, or at the end cease'st done
  " The tender scales I missl


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I kissed it,
Embroke its heart upon me, and saved from being
'suited to love,' I thought this pity,
By good oases thy breast, even as I took a tender drink;
To me, honest mistress, it seemed rank,
Rampant, obdurate works hastened.
'Write thy love's words once and-so fast,
The word must show thee occasion, but daybreak:
Curies could see how thy heart was decorated,
All this of your like love's fancy would be gone,
So tight, grumble and senseless d

