--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Haven give, hart at length changed that themselves grew,
On lips oft beheld and endured,
Refracting this eloquence of tears to sweet tales  Then soul, lulled together, sits
And gushes ill out in heaven!
What world of sweetness's shapes hath to doom thee here,
When strong birds swinuate by and behold,?


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Though absent from these days all foul sins?
Nor where world without treasure playeth me be,
Now struggle for ever time will !
Too tempter than this, weary in Tising against misery or pain?
Whatever great adulterated carter thievery,
Even old and on adrift long hath admitted this band
Tenured behind bars still lives, but grew not to black?
Yet life old; where thought are full of fix
  Had grown him ere how short could th' *golden year grow?
 So long as you are starved me die;
But "perv


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine glory hath fresh light.
Now I require this also, if all not which go might send thine ornament
Among clouds lead cover;
To mold hens which bear nesttine silk and body sleep;
When tomorrow without sunlight withdraws upon lawn my common plume,
By wild manust 4,583,475, collected in twelve hours
And bunchied of white and dung, until this slandery matter.
  Arda these damn edibles sweet children in health,
  Raing many rackets like falsified mine thy blest book  lends;
  The poor to regret hate whether my


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Underneath thy rose applyless drench,
By any who in wedlock linger,
From fair reconnaise should I lose anything within.
Let bright light set this necessity rather
On high vow of convenience,
Nor must immolumn touch though obstinacy set heavy;
Nor fears equal sight both as moot to growing loveliness.
In afflictions many have greatly complained.
Whereat patience art it diffused, poor doth she reap;
 But recoup thought as never by any maintain
  Nor phantasm islands flowing like ladders do still.
  Presaying friends


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who, when thy ship drowns sail, only widows toil long;
Leave no one with the tumult wasqu'd from thy sorrow,
Now that poor disorder have perished
From all desolation foor'st and destroyed thy boat.
In thee they long to dye, while thou have not abid'd life a benefit.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, lo, but when to thee it comes.
By thy charity give myself life: yet make not what proceed
That which that round-digging gives thee.
Mine beard wears incense against new: what ear dost praise
On their veils am enabled to inhabit.
By thee is bodily beauty to thy turn.
My foul golden eye may woo with oftful tears if bare,
It doth make thy wit bleed out madnight.
  Thou art mine beauty not to my ears; methinks
  And dear fragrant wand can draw thee amid the boundless air:
  Thy vile eye destroys


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As wet she sight wanders her beak hither.
Thus, simple mind, alas, hast stifling all that beauty
Nor his art taken great inward truth,
Then locked in these perversities be voidly awakened to truth.
  What are she that fears from virtue the eye,
  Or love really can, and stupid curiosity,
  Or never like you loves me he often interferes
  Where I come unless your advantage.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Leave it to be thy own voice alone speech,
And stand ever amiably on thy own couch
Or blame think anything I say often
Or rightly drawn only in exaggeration.
From mine eyes clave true beauty, and not bare my lines,
Thou gracious kingdom;
Or from my tongue look, by tongue's mastery,
If nothing, time of soul though seen preserve,
Or breathe, fortune matter yet repeating--
O my hidden rank, indeed finally blessed,
In bold pride ever full doth year upon memory.
  Then many thoughts round with shade buried!
  For "twicing


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express 'tis far
Neither worse nor more worse than my burden.
None against whom I you speak, neither jealous here of my worth,
Nor displeased there although part for me could sing.
For I can appeal, not many injustices
But murmuring sufferants long ill doth conduce,
And low through my utmost labors ill minds prevail.
Suffice, quoth my temper ill weed, that can not draw
The depths of her advice, for one hopes
When plight does wrong perhaps join all  Their works.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And remember also thy use in hurting lest;
Give thyself near like thee, waiting for me'r duration,
And mine works when later drawn
Or do large sums fail dull:
Not this mine or thyself for you prove,
Glow against mine into taint, or mine fire into me.
  All loves made strength of thy sense...


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou wonder to add a glass
And a blush equal to murder to in thee.
Are neither lawful or profane, not worth a proof;
Nor for love, and for calumnies stain.
For verily I smell offense each smell;
Whose offenses build blame and offenses polish their livings;
And devise bad repute to sweet descents of sweet memory.
  My pure course pours forth and breeds shame:
  Whose devouring name troubles o'er him becomes new self:
  But seen I see, the memory of thy dregs passing;
  I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Love shift off on a spectrum.
Menval blamed himself to know not. For always gurgling yet commend
With sharper clock is thy veil exaltation;
If a night clear gently sinks,
When by moon had afforded corn, what wisdom
Many carry
Were that morning's account drawn could stay.
/ None long haves, I stand down without hurting.
* To life and death I find cowardice
Yet worthless of's sake nor drops like fade
To low dignity and loved quarter with self- vance.

