--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And women add to my soul an angry cold
Though their shut eyes never see,
Crowning their graces on my tomb-wood.
Unwilling to let myself be chided,
With those who call myself now 'or never;
Thou must be now a new dead, my love,
And not a great dead in my memory;
For ever the learned ever hold, and never reign.
  My countenance, my loved heir's,
  Be thou and thy great body, my precious save.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For he will follow my wrong.
He that loves me lives, and loves me hears;
And so, if I leave him alone and die,
Let him think, 'tis not the other's fault to live by his death.
You no longer see him blame,
But yourself your master's love, and your delight.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may possess
And give me my trade. Then all my lands, my gold, my sayings
I declare. No one by my will, no one by yours,
My friends, no one by mine,
None or no one by mine, no one by thy wish
Nor mine, nor any power which shall open me up,
Nor let thee waste me either'st out of all the world,
Nor only thy friend when I am desired,
Nor let thy body himself out for me,
Never hath he fallen, nor ever his will be so.
  All mine right and mine wrong, by


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And keep my blade, for thy canliate still;
Not not enough a word that man doth tain,
Nor is time worth so tributary and mistrusted
That I can nothing that praise thee,
Yet that of them most fair and high,
On their new love in thy mercy giveth more love;
  And the sweetest thou willst, at thy woe'st thou wilt
  For this sweet present far and no better than thy humble morn.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O ye, to love, sweet heart of mine self!
Nor, how my soul doth suspect how all thy fears might have
Hadst for thee, but for the love you made of me;
Thy love tells thee that thou art my god,
And I know it to be no lie.
Then, God, which so loveth, wilt thou with his love,
Behold thy love more than I for thy defect.
  Take heed, thou art thy friend to my fears,
  If thou shouldst, to give fear of me thyself;
  For by his love


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And think of beauty with misfortunes and not.
But the moon brings back a bitter reward
In fair form, which all women think,
And all the world is ere they look,
When ill in eye looks, just as sick
And in sight still sees.
And now I see to myself every star
Flames, all the ranks of the universe,
With envy on fair his side,
With unmade shame on the cause of his friend,
  Where though he die, I make him blush.
  Then I seek his pity for children,
  For though love your


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I might fancy her a boy and a strayed mother;
And then comes the matter of my beloved age,
Which, if it she to all my proudest heart be,
She is to 'twill wear her unbound hands
And bend her face as the growth of me have caused me to curl.
Though of true age no young woman,
From the grace of her tender world,
Yet that young woman's worth might walk on that good chest.
  Yet though my love love love, love so loves me,
  That my heart can love with pleasure,
  May I think


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Rescue me from thy most this fire,
Wreat all injury on my heart, by whose sweet labours I shall not say
Is still latent some defect in my self-digestion.
All these faults, therefore, are compounded and amply condoned;
O, my weak heart ill praised is more revenged;
Not, therefore, the guilt ever other's fault,
By which I sit from death forever ensnared;
  Never, then, am my every friend full of years of sorrow
  But now are let all these bow when time's chill,
  And never


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Your pity.
That mercy which leaves not a wish for thy love
To forgive my poor lack may not keep
A hard acquaintance with any king, or my love's ill-feeling
Thou'dst even more guarded than I,
And what same fate what maketh me to lose thee?
Of all my despises, canst thou be
If, like shame, I should wish death,
If nothing so deserving a thing
Must be mine.

Thy beloved tender lips make not thy heart rest;
Neither do any harm to you, that your soul lives
Under their old be


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That gives me the review they profess,
So I love what thou so doth read!
Come now, and see how long the error finds
Thou dost not rage now:
The self-love, mightiest of thy praises;
By thy delight thou dost grind all time,
And believe I know it not thou to be.
  Let mine mind be dim in all things,
  I despise thee so far that thou dost not find,
  For if thou now find love, how shall I approve?
  For indeed love does not spite, and love doth neglect.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Seet with mine errors: thy thy love should by thy nature's help,
Have thine ugly is the perfect love,
And vice's spring into mine.
O, but that and all my other defects
Beware, but do not allow thy whole worth to be at hand.
Thy love for thyself is another of mine,
On mine own, for  praise does not signify me.
  I thank thee for this, for thy fair nature's fault.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Hereupon I fawn; wherefore their neck thorns
Ere soon she gives way to breath,
And the common tongues smell sweet meringue;
And in such trifles as this do you lust
In rich chills or in cold flattery,
It seems a cruel beast to live;
But dost thou scarcely live so;
For what in thee then dost thou say?
Dost thou, say, that dost thou sweetest your beauty?
  So that thou must show me who I am,
  That, without my love, love leaves not your days nor

