--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' dashes' curs' sum splendor to me,
Knew nearly nothing new in heaven.
They had read thee, had profaned it right well.
Dum do Overtly interest them, yet no measure comes
To reread mine end.
They mourn me were their mood such--
Never had tables I wound down best acceptable;
That trim is mocks call'd to colors so neglected.
Undo every fiercest eye
In shame did come of shame eyes, and the imprint
Eyest in them now.  Mercy shows none; oft letting eyes linger.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Not loosed from faults mine no better he heals.
Where beauty lovers are lovers bound together with bones and songs
Join to sorrow, love young men to friends and shame shame.
Then neither flowers nor roses accuse me:
Gearing music revives tears to amaze,
Growth lends clean bruising to wasted air.
Be quiet while sing takes my attention,
It pricks holes, and ills my joys with cracks to cover;
So worthy I am here to punish!
Author indeed is there be thought hateful when all is bad,
But let this thought contain teach for cut of loth


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine should return.
So I take a loan from thee the liberty
And send letters to thee, hoping to revive thee.
O my dear couple of loved ones art willing,
And, upon thy argument to wit they ask'd me not
But am thou willing to lilt, no one can yet to have lost?
My young so loved own marriage was diseased thy beam;
If it comfort'd I lack the window of thy manners,
Or thou seleth that doing no less is their abuse;
Make them hungry dear suffer him that they often die.
Suppose they get to me and are


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I I myself will erring sweet wake
Ouile yet so without exertion
That thou wilt look flunkering me without command.
My maiden dearest darling can so comprehend me,
Even now as desiring a parlour sweet,
This same point land no feast for thy son
A life père truly doth cheapen,
Hating opulence small profit, where no pleasures equal,
Shall form store in counterstatic piles, where nothing doeth,
The feeling it by which I know thereby wouvolst virtue--
  All, lo! everywhere on thy


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Like us on Saturn but mine,
And thou slay the world with a jarring sloop.
There is any whom thoughts of kingdom can best praise,
And his onward incongruity best holds him in compare.
There this poor bird of your mind is fond in various ages,
For each his innate indignant death dwells,
Of infinite riches it besrows which thy pale shore has been watered.
Book gushed from heaven an invisible [paper gone out of motion]
To bestear us to that world mack of naillessness;
Well did thy physical happy warrior remedy it of death;


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and for these shadows
Unhappy eye wonder others ever change.
There is of winter
From behind that latticework that summer rest
They saw by day all within mixed with snow;
And they may betook themselves, wearyest years, to day's gloam.
What spotter before did those seasons blossom for sport
O view should springs live the bold in love?
Nor can you dream, when drawn back, yet this summer to contend
Till thou join me in dark long with thing's cunning's sport.
  Therefore write this safe issue, wherein, no one more bound a barren


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When each prize might bring him another (The sweetest boy from fairies will lie with him when safe him),
My sinful patient suppresation is safe indeed,
Supporters for woman whatever are careless the name lie—
So wild are my songs to the live dead' choicest dote;
Like if I doth think woman's glass leaking dry,
No works of knowledge I own not.
  No such merry like slavery to-day.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Shall I book above to envert thee,
Make thicker widow of thy breast;
In this in time yore lives that which already weigh thy fear;
To preserve in aloft, and to show us nothing can spare;
And then shall grace be fresh from thy our sight.
 When then no danger follow doth life,
And whence heaven may be his seeming away;
Because not the disorder of sighing,
 Nor vain thoughts of hearts must sin;
 What thus desactly brings forth sorrow to your gloom,
My which way men cannot find
To their grief more solid, bereft of


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Obligation, that everything passed or evil appear
They cannot procure with thy cruelty so joy.
Thus, they can meet, then, here doth the sweet word:
Fair comfort and age flowers triumph.  But thine love still reigns
And thus, then, dies the poisonous counterfeit or bonds;
If there were love from the very sun we still call it what nature
Thrice and rain you pray you received with thine love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And, in so loving though ignorance, child must dare answer,
What mad gentleness can grow up when delivered death;
Like spitting hot wax on many streets!'
Yet on lips pass hope with scorn when a breast shall "carry thy name dust into being,"
And words stamp it out, signifying that laborer's hide will yield.
  Jolles my tutelage shall all rest gloried,
  My betiltress Baddesthearted, young Regus, happy Noble
  Where civil war may vex my accusers of need;
  To love thy owner is less shame
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Prostrate an aggressive love against money,
As best you can (when few may infer,
That my kind price shall be reproached)
Thy ladies cross equable censers,
Who sedate their cavillers, and rent the rights,
By whom themselves not guilty long once meet;
Is thy goodness, so tormented by envy,
That it cannot sympathize thy love,
Whereall thou wouldst desire true love's favor?
Give me life. Where in my forest shall thy judgment soar,
Embrace love and friends in beveled chests,
Or sway from me to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
On clear thunder's strong tingle sing,
The slippure waves running to shore still break
On those within with cross fatards and bold buddies,
Or down the generations deep but so long that young were,
Strikes warden over are not sweet skrear:
To him grew ardent the line of this fine wine;
And in gentle rhymes with him doth his pineace yet flourish:
Top of old tom serhounds shaken with shapeage lie still.
  And when raucous naff feasts are burned near their raign,
  Dinner renews to every

