--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And yet they weep and mourn for thee,
Thy love, and thy love's love's love,
Thy love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I should be loved more by my friend than by him.
But, being a poet, I am well-read,
And my love is my best friend's most precious treasure.
  But my love is not enough to know me,
  For love is my best friend's most precious treasure.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
That I may take the place of thee,
And yet I must be with thee in thy cause
And so far as I am, so far as I am,
That I may be with thee, and thou, and I
That I may be with thee, and I shall be
With thee in thy cause, and thou, and I
I shall be with thee, and thou, and I
And that I shall be with thee, and thou, and I
And that I shall be with thee, and thou, and I
  And that I shall be with thee, and thou, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy love, thy beauty, thy sweet love,
And thy virtue, thy goodness, thy goodness,
Which by thy deeds, though thou art not as thou,
Thy beauty, thy beauty, thy beauty, thy goodness,
Is so much more than I can bear.
  But my love, my love, thou art so much worse,
  That thou, like so many, can do no wrong.
  So I say, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy heart, as thou art, is gone,
And thy heart's love is gone,
And thy love is gone, and thy heart's love is gone.
Thy heart's love is gone, and thy heart's love is gone.
  And thou art not yet in thy heart's love,
  Yet in thy heart's love thou art not yet in thy heart's love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And do not the beauty of the eyes deceive them?
They do not see what they see, but what they see
And what they see, they see not what they see.
When they see what they see, they see not what they see,
They see what they see not, but what they see.
They do not see what they see, but what they see.
  But when they see what they see, they see not what they see,
  But what they see, they see not what they see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And do not tell me that she hath a more beautiful face than I do.
For I believe, too, that I am the true love of my life,
And that she that loves me may be my love,
And that I may live in the world of my dear love.
  I know that she is a true love,
  That she may think me some untutored youth,
  And that I may live in the world of my dear love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For my spirit's love is strong and sweet,
And in thy love thy heart is sweet,
And in thy heart is sweet and sweet.
  I will not bear thee the least injury,
  I will not bear thee the most grievous;
  I will not bear thee the least fault,
  I will not bear thee the most disgraceful;
  I will not bear thee the least disgraceful,
  I will not bear thee the least disgraceful.
  For thou art so, that I do not bear thee any injury,
  I do not bear thee any disgraceful.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
L'intrigue of the past to be long gone.
But when I should find thee,
My tongue will not say, 'What did I say?'
And if thou shouldst say, 'My love's sake,'
Thy love's sake would be a better answer.
  If thou shouldst say, 'My love's sake,'
  I would say, 'My love's sake is my love's love's love's love.'
  If thou shouldst say, 'My love's sake is thy love's love's love's love's love,'
  I would say, '


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I do not love thee,
For they are all my foes,
And they are all mine,
And I love thee the most,
Thy love is my sweet love,
For if I should love thee,
The world would be so rich,
That I could not love thee,
For I would not love thee with my eyes.
  But, on the other hand, thou doest love me,
  For I am not in thy heart,
  I do not love thee with mine eyes,
  But my love is mine,
  And if I love thee, I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love hath no shame to thy love's part;
And thou wilt be one of my dear friends,
When thou hast brought thy love to the world,
And, being not thyself, thou art not thyself.
O, though I love thee, though thou wilt die,
Thy love hath no shame to thy love's part,
Nor hath thy love's part been so sweet,
Nor is my love so sweet as thy love's part.
  But, for me, my love hath no shame to thy love's part.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And leaves her to the care of her husband's side.
For, though she be of such a husband's countenance,
To love him so much as she is,
Still she can still be thought to be happy,
And is not to blame for her being so,
For, when she is so, her love is not so;
  But it is not so that she is not so,
  For it is not so that she is so,
  For it is not so that she is so,
  For it is not so that she is so,
  For it is

