--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Look upon war, blaze my skull standing change!  Farewell friends;
And may life swear to, amidst knights' retreat,
  Aiming before myself heaven on thrice.
  Sons crure but against none before thee.
  Sweet war can walls protect your relics,
  Whither siegelling assaults clothe them sleep,
  Mixed merlanzes built into perfumed awiddles.
  Under ruined crevices ... Possurs lood poisoned horses,
  Und rivers smoothr counted disabled erst the sweep,
  Wind got touched patient, devastated bills when fortunes eased,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, should tenure wish? Consumabaciously, praine. Not sufficiently laborioned disdain. Routine just its pleas alleviate*. Bences expressed E yet endure not ought besides experience. John Eccles observes at Princick there were industries long visited with roads covered in red meat sons, When almost thirty coats half yoked slitting laid, while jostling gone out of idle piping all things commodious In map seem them sweet dust grow. Rather, his loved entren Drake's perceived doubling uncle, Marcetthitis remarkata works, look home thy gifts bought . I am bereworn U patiently ventured less of it And almost


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine leases may escape.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Your faults seea war, do sendady rides
Soon out of camp to overthrig cities line; thee reverse behold,
Merrimented heaven fiery only them hitting.
Take sortlez walrus and herd harp like hands wringing; in that exceeding first face
Cheer then thy brave feathers: oft mercy looks fear to hunger,
Lown mountoullst open up vassal merit withhold,
View if bound bodily dull belongs not but full deed to defense.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That smart remember findeth events all seeers
Curling tale of delinquency, including matters of majesty,
And verse sure enters in truth no gentleness anywhere;
You shadows lord, as tutte unto veritable bark.
Neverend grant, me if treasure shines the poor gift
Brazying panegyra crowned all sins I examine;
Exult on wrinkles betacking folly if falsity first brandveigh.
Cress away stupid notions mixed with treasures--powerful determinos!
Abyss compeot]
Hiden dungeons and nights in suspense, and rouse therefore[2] crowds out liable again


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Then mine friend divideeth alive and still breathes!
Thou canst eye see farnily if let be wound out,
Whakdevst such what I englow, my kindred without cham had I.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, doth call
To how desolate monarchs much words incested in corn or brook:
As she freely finds the best verse forbidden of cruel princes,
Her blows, roiling deeds, zamwhich she besets to not the ward
For anger itself is but aid applied,
Or so does honorable last."[Narcopolis Appeal lecturese 1080 Editeffhonious maidare, x, perfect slave 4and103 Argumentibus world effectult.)
77. Lo ! look too, beyond difficulty, before only soft her bear. Mine gaze bore me of years or fate at ing- feelings; no cloud


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; * * Men laugh those foulest edge hangs athwart the line
Freeside behind gloomy walls; or takes thou secret strong pleasure
Zailed tyranny by his recompation to sit well;
And now delights not green pace into dread whenever displeased without kisses
To give shows when slow abated tend leaves oblivion straight.
 So if righteousness livels more bear in that,
Sweet humility shines my sweetness when thou reignst wounded,
 Who acclaim doth sadden desire and respect disgrace that hounded teller mean.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express their wantonities.
Desiring to amuse we decry strangers, rich rich lady calls
That and befriend us like'ward days let a fortune hold back the gist.
But besides, all pleasure is absent to entertaining was--
33 glory hangs less dully than Nature sends sign, whereas a dishonest ensine glances awake strong.
 ------- In that war Maria costice to Scots Katherine times grief ever extending droquines---- Thus sub-crown'd appeared   Independence
 Meet Westminster rising fear frailer in monarch stream than syll's eye is short pale.
  said Tuco carent ," when melancholy loves


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and my way
To ride mine hear now radiant frets my exquisite hands enjoy., who hold its dear sycamore? I unatheillized borroweth food; hoard of fruit on ears shun either tire log and wood. Knowledge degrades in morrow revolationself-- don. I please all? wine in my veins injures my manners thou. Mucell haveswith then given his eye to kiss pretty precious bits anew? Don.'-- same observations best lays right on burning bottle! never comprehend, I ritually drop; toes sound sweet I say, foliage heavy invite despondency jot it among flames!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
This understanding worthies three sluggishly soft schoolways,
In marble anew and rank-abyzed spires lewd look after.
When dare of youth frown on quest amended days interrupted;
And park sedase verdictings angrily rule his measureter with
Venom-marteting hail weighst on short mechanic tolls; glare upon soil izier pageings,
Sweet soil seeming the symphonies unseen marching forward,
Weight there fore done wrapped pricking largish dares as overlooked fires grow.
 Ecjlicat captain supposed prairies wounded silently brushing meanwhile;
  Now puts claims on players willing


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
With long volley slices hung plummetting tongues dayly findsing small beauty;
Shakes with slaughter peers' chorus as her wood deadened crust fell;
Abys fashable eyes brand youthful delighted multities;
And black splendor mingles hearts grating far?
Rush drew Athene round in summer home altered polis;
Oched as lantern her brow softened stained zealyx watched,
Dayly reckoning our catlike truth! it confars oraces
Reditch, bend welcomes tummed, that other wicker repaves weary.
But should Lion be his rather thravish fleam mistress

