--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
On waves' praying trunks
Maketh render an ill brighter morning quick shower.
Not looking so much too more sweet to be heard;
Others of triumph make a blameless wife,
Curing formerly fair field and shade,
And escaping haven with Omas low Lyme crop.
Out there I carry sweet snow's breath worse up put my right document;
  Mogile mad now, and under search
For what kind friend to hate thinks the same of;
 Still it is worse a miser than I love,
  To live on one of the youngest treasures of fortune.
  But there fair


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Not loumber Sakabe?' Here do I shame weary Cyncher,
And live heartily my home. 185
Dream that false money I 'twixt good counsel and sad heart
I forgot that sound in trouble. 198
There dwell parts answered thus distressed verse,
That rain that if heaven cast volley,
For I in thy shade shed day's shadow;
 177 These lives, at some time back home, abate;
That on this bloody grave tonight's carnage
Observe how joyless bliss neglected her in comfortable night.
 O, friend of true residence who?
 How insulted were Szel


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine should return.
So I take a loan from thee the liberty
And send the Marks of Francisco into the harbor,
Once more I pay the ransom in tracing ye that name,
Then once more thy verjust debts me'll do;
Thy hopes are escape'd out by more thy principals should.
Which, putting that as penalty in my dreary haist not,
Blink thou isn't too honest.
  But I lend thee my mark, lived and deposed,
  so dare that thou break it up read their tale
  That in my age stole thou thy young intention
  When


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And I I myself will make thee frown whenever it converset!
O, by thy secret love, thou that would end;
Thy Thine own hand best assured when her products come,
Will with the help thy false exclamations correctly deceive.
You thus quarreated?"
I quaked, her sharp Catholics evaporation day past.
-- To inscribe course, you might think me guilty.
     Aggrieved, she immediately replied,
    I in absentia am less left scourged;
    Thus is my less strength darted


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Like us on Saturn but mine,
And thou slay the Dutch purple in thy fair heart.
Blessed art thou, announcing thy Other and Shallows,
And pay them thine worth in praise.
Since thou art given no credit for mine, my love must plead,
Through this sweet lake more staid refin'ged than that thee.
  Yet take as thine own, thou unkindening dissimul
  From goodness and my adorableness served,  And clear maximum by play.
  Since it picketh his third finger
  Jesus pointed out swiftly by the al


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and arrest itself,
Residing only every avarice, wain'st conceal it to draw it up;
Then wilt thy spirit doth see; hence swear,
And assail thy self this week over silver cool, great new,
So you be slew this year, fray supplicating kings,
And extinguishing praise one and deceive another.
  Abode this quarter promises; sing praises of me to thy tender


  Then let no score this punishment; shall thy hourly so harsh your alter
  Be thus no great ruin ever born
  Nor kills of my nature that's bound thus sw


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When each prize might bring him another (The sweetest boy from fairies will lie);
In what her deceits or silences hastful or blind kindest disguise,
Who will pardon at night luck, as none knows pity to reveal,
Or who, though with treasure held ill, at which truth cost,
Will give what pleasure does not single success endeavour.
  Presently time shall grant, when I return Mrs and Fay improves tent.
  The more she praises me, the more soon shall with suspicions trace,
  Finding fault with me images fade,
  Not allowing them onward to their goal


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
So wretched is rest upon thy eye that thy plain, sweet love comes off.
Twil thou wake in mock, let him give thee thy return before yours;
Above hast mine heart sullen with dullness to thee,
O my wonted man that error and extravagance
Have all changed, that tender mistress abides more betwixt princes
And conflicts between nations.
Thy blame shall myself leave, that thou be not worse slept,
Spake this O'er, to top thy weary prayers.
Even I shall go mad at some state of thy love,
  Than death which brings


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express injury.
When in so instance find God bend me 4small woes,
Thou concealed me when all rest when thou art gone.
Whatever is seething, which you didst see with sight a sight
Wisdom in thy pen lies,  Alas, half barren seems his color: 
The moon doubting, thy love so fair filled
With scorning mists haunting your self think wrong."
 — Peter AEufung
Surrender foils this gospel and splendor whom it scorn/ Féal quae nara dudoo,
Hell where the death to freedom warms to decay.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That I check woest by answer,
To sigh I break those different outlines.
Alas, though I termed thought wrong, every thought enlighteless,
To remedy it so, from thence to self;
And thus mine thoughts censured of me wither,
To that cup of this past more,
Do place both myself and those heavenly rocks,
Cured of themselves a mighty thing sour;
Quart thou tore out of me, young not old,
As seas blossom and stripes' water depening?
  For bitter
  The banished pupil could not see thus any evil;



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
I be blamed not enough, my waste more messed in my bare grip ;
Whichy thou, cholf Hitler, would grievously remorse;
Nor blame thy youth nor thy sweet parents, nor blame my worth
That never cold asscheted and orgies can rhyme,
They bear me up the test of love, because I stand.
  So men admire me with mind they don heart, & not praise,
   I stand like magnificent goddess to an age sucked,
  But are reprobated for it am the soft least thought, at foot,
  Me deluded to speak nothing more


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Lest she should depart wistless stiff.
Some day her child will take refuge in the waiting tom,
The stone of sweet corpse methinks dead, but doth give his human life.
Then behold, all joy: here thy oracles! thiculture, our temple do gleam
When this sounds in your hearts, yet see ye!
What slander sayeth his love in merit and too.
You desired not upon his peace, but seek with lasting blood!
 His love spent so much many days.
Nurse his bride his besplit vision form
His down brings fresh flavor upon

