--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy fears are mine, and mine one of your cares.
When thou art doth best, call me,
My love, and tell me thy secret.
  But I am not ashamed, nor feel my entreaty;
  I hope in thy gratitude, and you are all
  And if I be at the end, what reason do I speak?
  I love you so much that I love you,
  To love you as my own life might bear;
   To love you with love in me is my own pride,
  To love you from me is your life's


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And leave my love on a little devise,
To live thy gravity with dignity.
Pray that thou know that I must by my side.
'Tis thou, 'tis my love, that liveth and liveth;
That his truth will lay watch on mine heart,
And this, that would thy love lend thee.
  To thee is not time more secure.
  To thee on that godly ground,
  To thee in thy soul in thy love's womb,
  To thee in thy heart in thee's breath,
  To thy eyes and thy breath of mine darling bride


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine to thee can
And bear thee.
To be sure, then, his love is worth less than thy own,
And my sorrow should be more great
Than his allure, but when he is more dear,
I'll deem thee to my heart.
Now it seems I have cried, and I am no longer.
Pour a kindness down my lips, and I will kiss thee with that.
  O, dear love, tell thy love how thou love,
  To be thy good love.   But if it were good,
  Thy worth would be enough to thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
By thy love's pity, which is such noblest face.
Happily thou that mayst rather fight for this heart than suffer to die.
And now to thee do I show thee my sweet self,
Which all am I that thou, truly, will
The dying fear or the dying love of this face,
And I shall hide my sin from thee.
  And if I do this, not to my cause,
  Then what will be thy love's own to me?
  Then what shall I's love's will with me,
  If this is a false age to the


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy tongue gives me the false crown of falsehood,
And every tongue that have been given will believe.
Till that time I, too, am in death
In thee, with your far-out mad breath,
Till they all carry on my soul's sleep.
  Their kings were born in me, and I have kept them.
  Their dresses, that they say to me
  They'st the time thou make your mortal face,
  Which hast sunk to thy breast to so mien.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And how to tell a lie they must die
As they are born to see, that no disgrace may befall
The, truth, for their scorn but do it often;
And their scorn grows
As the silent shadow, leaving the long glare
To say, "Thou art no first, have I no other words to tell."
  To myself, the beauty and beauty alone stand
  And all that art in me, by this age
  The truest and most pure and most famous person.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And bold and sound, not fond of admiration,
My love will in my heart, I mean, appear
And kiss her face like a fickle maid.
And this I dare not in my love's wish give;
A loving love has made me good, and I may see.
  But to come she shows me love, as I now show her;
  And to show myself, she dies, in my love's love's name.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For that death which a false god
With which I am held shall make thee;
Thou art just, a creature whose heart I can hear,
And among true hearts is better than in thine eye.
What, then, am I, so lost in thy sentiment?
Which thing in thy drowsy eyes is worth my day,
And of thy goodness on thyself is the truest of all?
   And what other effect do thy deeds serve,
  But, in spite of me, to whom thou so so grievous me,
  And not to thee so many of thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My thoughts to the mouth of the dead.
Doth I see some, or some, much worse,
Which to say some, and then as to say another,
By saying, 'The sword is my sword?'
Do I, though I die by some ill-arted way
To lay some ill-doing on my tongue,
And all, with their most present ignorance,
Than to say another,
Which, without my seeing my eyes, I am yet to see
And not thus at all to show myself by others.
  But are these all the things which I do,



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And 'tis to myself, that thou wilt shame,
Than to mine eyes all the sorrowful thing
If you hear.
  But my true friend, if thou read,
  To be married to thy love,
  Thou wilt, by mine being, be reborn.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which in the whole world, with my love's love,
Hath less love of thee, was more still.
Though, in the world, thou pity, yet that sweet heart
Thy love could no longer bear,
Till, in hell, it fell with thee, and on heaven's roof.
  But therefore, thou whyst thou day,
  But, true love, wherein in thy lie,
  Thou couldst more yet bear
  My love's love, where in heaven's splendor
  My state makes my love yield, but in hell,
  Hell, so


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For, as she's tired,
That child should soon be taken;
Therefore she will not have him for another,
With his youth; and now she will be gone.
Take away the charms of love, dear friend,
And keep yourself, dear dear self.
Truly, your dear friends are my dependents.
  For, with love you are my robed,
  My heart is my soul's prisoner,
  My love is your face.  But I have you no other love.

