--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy true love, so dear as thy self,
Is for my sake, my purpose, and for thy sake
As for thy sake my love, but for thy sake I am,
For I love thee with thy fair eyes,
And for thy sake I am sick, and sick
For thou, my love, thy fair heart,
Thy self is my love, and my love
Is for thee, my love, and for thy sake
  All that I hate and all that I love,
  All that I hate and all that I love,
  All that I hate and all that


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For when my friend's tears shall show,
Then what else can I say to my friend's grief?
My friend's heart, that hath no pleasure in my grief,
Is my friend's heart's tenderest and most loving wound.
My friend's heart is my friend's heart,
That loves me, and I love him,
And that is why I love him so.
  But since this love is my friend's heart,
  I can say nothing but this:
  My friend's heart is my friend's heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And by the services of your servant's hand
Give me, in return, your name, as a slave.
Hearing this, I see thee in the gilded hand of thine,
And with thy blessing I will live
And in your hands, in your own, as your own
When thou art gone, as thou dost be,
And I in thy name shall live, like thy name.
  But this is not the end of my life,
  To be remembered, and to die.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than so far as my heart's love is,
And thou, my dear, in my love will not be.
Thou art my love, my love's desire,
And all thy thoughts are mine;
Thou, my dear, in thy thought,
Thou my best and most true friend,
And my love's love will be my child.
  But, my dear, thou must be my child,
  If I should die, and my love were dead.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou shalt be crowned, and that I am,
And I, with thee, with thee,
Will hold thy hand, and hold thy heart,
And thou shalt be my king, and that I be.
Be thou, and I will hold thee in my love,
And thou shalt be my love, and that I be.
  And thou shalt be mine, and that I be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they see the sight of beauty,
And they see that beauty, which they see,
They see that beauty, which they see,
Which thou dost see and see not,
That thou dost see not what thou seest,
That thou dost see not what thou seest,
That thou dost see not what thou seest,
That thou dost see not what thou seest,
That thou dost see not what thou seest,
  And thou dost see not what thou seest.
  But thou dost see what thou dost see,
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For I am not so much a fool as she that she is,
For I am not so much a fool as she that I am,
For I do believe her though I know she lies;
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And think me some untutored youth,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
  And think me some untutored youth,
  So that I may think her not so much as she that she is,
  But that I may think her true.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Hath thou so deceived me,
Thou, my love, thy love's tongue,
And thy truth, my false self,
Thou, my love, my true self's truth
That thou wilt be my doom.
O, I see thee to be a thief
That steals my soul from thee,
And, being of that thief's tongue,
Thou, my love, my true self's truth
That I have to bear, for I am not of thee.
  So, my love, my true self's truth,
  I do not look on thee, but on


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such faults of mine own fault.
Be it not, then, that thou shouldst see
That I am in love with myself,
Or that I am in the wrong with others;
But, if thou wilt see, I am not in love with thee
And so, being in love with myself,
Thy love hath no place in thy heart.
  And therefore, when thou wilt see that I am not,
  I am not in love with thee.
  For, being in love with myself,
  Thou wilt see that I am not in love with thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that, in me, the praise is mine,
And, as if in thee, I am thyself in it.
Thou art my heart, my love, my love, my love,
Which, as if it were my own,
Calls, when it is in thee, to make thee a new
And to give me thy name, as if in thee
It were my own heart, and that thou art mine.
  I do not love thee with my eyes,
  For their eyes are my eyes, and that which they see,
  And I, having their eyes,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And if I do not love thee,
I am ill, and will die.
Thou art my friend, and I am in love,
And not to thee is thy love.
O, but with mine friend, I love thee,
And I love thee, and thou, and all that thou dost
Will be my friend.
  But thou art not my friend,
  For I do not love thee,
  But thou, being mine, and all that thou dost
  I love thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
The wriggling of her womb, the wriggling of her breast,
Than a beast, but in the true sense of the term,
Cannot bear the thought that a woman should live.
But, as a proud mother's child,
I love to see her alive, and to see her live
For a moment in the blood of her womb.
   And, as a proud mother's child, I love to see her live
  And, as a proud father's child, I love to see her live
  As I love her to see her live.

