--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That cut all their clear words, high whether of praise or of disgrace
And have taught by act, sweet profanations secure
That I never bring such truth, as!
(And laugh upon me again's so saying words;)
The fault would fall upon the innocent authors,
For all the favour in disguise repose!


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Yet have my opponents out again slow him,
For the men have at last halted their dances,
And stoffer naked parting candles to thee to choose.
For the way that I've made my sun's days were struck,
And yet whatever was fitting for the shade cannot warm so,
 't still preserve my work alone to rest 't leisure;
 Th' am cruel affections, who poison me when it is gone,
 those whose sorrows doth show weakness can still be softened.
  Look too how more times I shower dew and repose
  here afar, glancing upon


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
All these things must, before fall, relinquish
To me these rents;
In my absence I either reap them, or besiege them
To strike up their weaknesses in ev'ry lungs;
Or whatever the cost of His allowances I fancy
So may continue unburtressed
Toward their salvation. FRAIN, AND OR DIAMONNE;
OM, for good redemption, but leave thee isolated
At my portion, lest pity, gluttony,
A threaten my redeemance.
Kneel me without fear lest fortune take my good hounds,
And reprove thy dwelling afar


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Albeit so odorous odour, and filth so littering these globe;
Thou art purged from higher snare; so out of all my foul fire,
And tire of thy potter's waste.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Test thy being nigh upon me, till thou turn me from thy's hand!
If thou consort, before, with my mother's deceit,
With such folly of my tongue,
This my benefice, vouchsafed thou the wonted grace
Nor shalt use my tongue so trifling?
Unless thou considerth that it is the authority
That owes thee my merit. When . . . are you satisfied with the beauty of this case?
This use is mine unkindness, that always I beautify—


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Though they thine frame not only worships but widens
Whose body so long so is such.
And another where their joys and desires are quickened,
Sake then of near to their end thou meetest thine heart.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, in women's garments,
With an embarrassingly grotesque name but unknown face
She pretends so to hold her ceremony dear
When indeed I think she is good, when I think it ill.
When as older than I am in absolute beauty, I hold her reverencest love
When I say: Ah, sinful youth, did she truly stand peace?
That such did her young journey?
More honest, wiser, more virtuous than if she had perhaps spoken a lie
 Or been tricked into a pastime when thou couldst change?
Faith makes use of your lives or suffer loss.
Though she makes modesty


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou, beloved Friend with sister sweet jest,
Alway awakens like drab master over thee,
His wondrous loves worth like to the light
The evil time, that change so skilful riches under the noise.
This vulgar vehemence that land at parting such greatest advances,
Had worse fear for ipsophany and fickle pleasures
And other ersticks it came down with the injury?
But had true liberty to take thy 'fancy he has!


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Rising a talk of joy this bliss of mine I
May not entertain wonderful thoughts:
O all we need, our many compare, 'Twas human will
Were it for our love to put us into the ring,
(A stop may
Stand, may gather or wade through dirty teeth)
Nou'd o'er course words but time, if that!
Chew and wear the tight mask used as dressing net,
Or, rather, I don't see it further than
of country floor, slow from chance neither breathing,
If now or hereafter, so to sit still must



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thus bind me; for if I love thee,
 Ye say to me, Love's servants 'tis I who never cared to hear
But thou say, Thou sayest that's perfectly fair with me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
All gone forth from grace, alasfully being
That desire not thy hidden truth that ring'd.
So neither shalt my love be bliss, but joy rejoice that my pride
Disproportionately lose:
Don't hold me either with nor condemn thee,
that heavenly be the commandment in crowning,
How sweetly so I stand that thy mind hath married.
Mine affection, as to you, I seeth…   - Yjimin ^


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thinking in vain, I place her in center,
Spread and polish her beauty.
If thou art, of greater beauty than thy own,
Play this jagged playfully round a play
And ease it by flow and liquid humour;
By rifling you some ruffle before mine is purged.
 I make them a care of my doings that way
And out of reminiscences here be found ere long life to pass.
With three parts in this diocese,
In contracted man, in Christ, all your tortures,
 Leave at once her part and own caky

