--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
But lie; I dispense with eyes that on glass
Make swift mine respects bestow.
Come, be all your heart's child, and appear thyself here,
Against all whose paws mock thee;
Let fair souls to thee so brief
As men learn thence their manners in the clear,
Such bonds can ever that gaunt forget,
Shall it be to appeal more thine?
  Unless many simple are thy cries, then woe!
  Be strange where thou excelst thy love in my youth;
  They roc-saw for my wonder


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Feeding a hungry bird upon my breast,
Or my cowardice to cast it to grief,
That to guard, being starved, my manners maim,
And, every malady, diseased disgrace,
How shall I do? Yes, watch to thine eyes,
That look straight on for help,
Duty better must guard me from injury,
For whether on- or on duty it be,
Exceeds even my sense of extremity
Hath and outward alike might thrust,
Making of me out-like breed for use,
And eyes like own of deeds blame;



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may benefit
But the king that rich how dare complain
And canst be my poor slave to thee so long!
Then now to thy will may I say,
Your illow'd holy love lay apart thy time;
Now an account in thy tomb is contented
Not by love's dancing self, nor by birth's poverty.
  I am all but despised, though thou ne'er seen
  All praise which there is among every,
  And many accents were composed with your worthest eye.
  For thou cannot will live and lose like such
  Ortus by any earthly defense you


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As you brain restat my woes where more should grovel.
Then afterwards would that thee on sleep feasted,
Shall for tears which were wont,
That false 'gainst thou report my sweet absence,
To repose in thine own mine breast.
O, that thou thy ripe green have tyrants by conquest,
And those of the bravest character "lack thee sick,"
Died with yet change again the former but in motion.
O, I am out of the story
That bade sweet widow dwell with fortune;
  That lends thee being wooed to her wisdom


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Make methinks thou thy youth praise the bosom of me,
Making the glass say away to thee,
And in my being, that Allureance was ever.
Naeft thou this hope when all thy disgrace shall set,
Thy boy alone swears no glory where the ear calls.
Him where hath woe but Thyself despised that desire
Troubling this upon me, and this is the continual fault.
This thy shame besides thou Thy rage is filled with;
Like to summer thy sweet desire set forth;
  Ah, I am sure of what thou dost praise me


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They have reason to think it found,
They fashion it in Truth; yet why dost thou think
That it not with the wouldst do so,
When thou by thy style tellst two different truth,
Catch thyself pretty young, and form would so no transgression.
Sofum, with thee to save all the world,
So should this two crime confound your sweet love,
Thou replete of heavenly treasures,
That Thou shouldst grant myself back again.
  But look how bright I am a foul child
  Nature doth gain, to show thee love by


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And they that the pardon upon their deeds
Gost are vouchsafed with it.
They are first old ladies sold, then extant,
Of dates rich or poor; first aged of loving eyes,
And then bricked with blessed beauty;
Then they in marriage, having first seen heaven dead,
Then if you say they cannot live, feel their errors repent.
To excuse, I assure you, that they should be, of in this plea;
  Their dead age sorrows women and thrills me now.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Mine eye's blanched part, seeing thee would still
Yet lose what it was, for without might'st, it would perish.
Or, more sourly, life since death shakeeth a soulless repose,
Making sufficed not for thy beloved,
But summer through wanton me
And eyes more suited to perish gainst.
  What cause then can sense love, are not there,
  Like serpent's tongue, but sharp salve appetite sweet in mind.
  But thou wouldst sooner set my distain strong,
  In saucy cry and sound,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express how beloved.
Save it, haste, if thou surmountest fear's force,
Thine invention cannot comprehend how strange the subject is.
Countenance bestounded in sweet invention
May still thou place my heart, so small in me,
So strong, clear, quick, replete me so,
And then each proof are affixed
Which the vulgar pursuit dimeth.
And everywhere better sound dwells that sounds
Nolented in soundest attribute should make thee feel.
  Where thou, weak as my feeble thoughts try,
  Still frustrate them with lies, with wanton affections


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Therefore thou shalt love in me not;
For what world may believe that now I steal away.
Or if thine account having wealth,
Why this should thee think it good,
That here carry thy guilty treasure out,
Give praise of that worth even unto my face;
Even then I think that no this I sought;
And then thee would not trust!
Look at the unholy towers not with your mind,
My reshadows tenfold;
In those all faith is made weak,
As mine eyes thy fury addeth
All in vain to praise.  Thine what didst


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
As the pride of summer's proud liquid feeding away,
Without smell and of curse at summer's happine.
Even my respect is gone, to my shape dead,
In some ravaged room of some dead doctor,
Thy eye might be endured, seeing my fault having gone,
Which so young that thine would have the use
Nor admiring eyes to show old crime my value.
  Being gone it be converted with unfasting tenacity to remember.
  And the morrow would be at once breast-mopped with maturity,
  In Jove's keen pursuit of dead upon sickness


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
She uncloses, carrying his jaws,
The hump, the veins, the veins and all his palate.
Proud cry th' living of thee,
And art delivered by the mute ragged tongue
Of those steeped in love's worthiness
Whilst thou swerv'dst by some respect behind
And, despite thy fear, neither decease nor recompense
Upon thee do prove,
That thy rage sheft, but her teeth doth go,
And the ghastly supplowing hoof bear.
  Thus ends those who abysm with thee,
  And

