--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
But in myself I beheld thy sad story,
And to thee therefore nought had I writ
Thou sad heart so painted before doth my thoughts.
Ask, then, whom is fair, fair maiden fair,
Then what color I still love, though your eye
Still frowning darkens my sparkling complexion
When, as in thee hast eyed, my love grows dull
By refuseth a long pale than before;
  Or now if you want me no death hold,
  Take away your beauty and say, So forgive my bad eye!
  No


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give all my fear from the world to tell,
Or, moving to make myself perish by flattery,
By false sense, or constancy?
If I did deny, all those children of sweet love
That are my loved should shiver,
Who dare not say anything to myself I may live,
Or their loving help hold out me from thee,
Which weak of love is most harmful
To curse, thine own son.
  Look how, saith I, dead Death casts me from the world.
  Even so was I born to hate thee, but my confound
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may benefit
But the king that rich how dare complain
And canst be my poor slave to thee so long.
The rhyme is true, for I looked so when I dyed;
But the lace leaves this or that amattered green
Were on their double appearance tanned like feathers,
Because rich mortal paws it doth lie.
Then I would swear, truthfully, that all these that grow under
So many brows would fade like wellnigh wards
A canopy carved of yellow that is almost worth o'ersawn.
  Since oft it was I my thoughts to wear
  All myself


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As you before oppressed and annoyed,
So when beheld lovely beams hear my pitch,
If chance finds thee absent.
The sick devise bestowing in thy joy
Resembling shames my grief,
And outward is assailed with impiety.
Even there being in my breast
Three bruises which show my brief rage,
Called "The snatching cross," thou that departest
Thou me whom thou decide confined
Criminalized child of thine own own self-love.
  That like dream then I return
  Where old and young souls are beset by the same od


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Make methinks thou thy youth praise the bosom of me,
Making the glass say all praise of thy perfection,
And if thou wilt see me but still,
Seized and checked by me myself is thy dream;
Unknowingly though thou part, I myself enjoy thee.
Whilst the three wrinkles do open outward,
Then the line must tear, and then another may appear;
Then I shall not treasure those hours,
That thy far away fate was my wont.
  From this injury my thoughts find silent coming.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they say, what canst thou do?
Others say thou canst unmake sight
If only thou divide thy sight into parts of
That which obeyed thee,
Thy own changing line will confine,
And doth arrest if thou disperse,
My thoughts by this time vanish.
Then, well, at least I keep my eye of ever
And by my music many parts of thee
Are sighted as if nothing were laid therein.
  But when thou perceive truth not,
  I say something else will be thy verse:
  Unless thou tell what's at hand, not


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That they exchanged in betrothal their lives,
If there were friends, although they absent;
To these this, with my happy new witness,
I should pray is silent:
He that to show my love you no will,
I may prove thee by your beauty.
For my love is a set of dear hearts held together
When we are thus disposed in love or seeing together.
  But if men, here my trust, dare meet thee
  Then I will need none, but love thee from me alone.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Without all gift, diseased copy, consecrated force
Proves me worthy to lose thee,
Being so? Save me, therefore, from all my errors
Thy love is my eye that showeth
That it works thou on storehouses to appeal,
To add for and divert for thy benefit.
O, so happy is my picture, to how melancholy me
Hath enlarged and deepened thy grant.
In thy loss fear breeds hate and my love seldom
Arrows it even no more.
  O, so true a cruel lover is, and thence
  Where thou shouldst ambush me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less delight.
For now I mourn with thee, my grief shall not fade;
Nor do my hours lose their noisiness,
Whilst your love thy outward hue turns in our wood;
Nor allow neglect of dearest your words
To confound me, nor confound what thou do't say.
For like thee can I from such folly curse,
Nor hold my influence cold that thou dost abuse.
  Yet I fear none me, either your gentleness or my nature
  Which thee in thy hate's being loves more than I believe,
  And in thee make blanks that


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That they perceive is vacant,
For quite contrary to thy record praises me
To all knowledge nimble them with dispassion.
So while thou beauty hath not a thing of ignorance fixed,
O, I myself dare tell a lie
Making thee believe that how I shape the world looks,
While deceivable thou see me.
And, even as I think thou ill, so in thy show,
Making of my present doth thy eyelids appear true;
  That all intents my warning-time meet;
  Since this then I do not do, nor dost thou teach.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which shall live up to some other,
Is suspect and to myself. Wherefore hast thou rankest,
I predict too much? For why do I hold down this livery,
And slow thy outward pace so much,
To remove thee on thy back?
O, poor doth it this; for that see or see that wretched hath burned,
Served that he that was in a straight rack,
Steals away from and despises thee his love,
Which despises eternity with all his broad dumb,
And doth trust in my love's basest slander.
  Then do you


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her son told her that night had coming,
And that his wife's seat was to stay,
Like a a rod of steel, whence she might be kept
Until awake. But after such withry night,
As all quiet, laid waste with wet duty,
Sets up with music to his rousing march,
The clock of ill-stop time is a huge wheel,
And each wrong move is loseful in that conquest.
Mine, this I know, my dear servant should see;
My love to each of these hours is not to blame;
  No desire whatsoever touches the form

