--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That I be in sorrow when I die.
My pity is greater in the sight of an ungodly sight,
Yet, as the knight's breast that is not heard,
Thou'st of beauty and perfection and honour.
Yet, wilt thou suppose my impiety so far more
To suffer him? for my gluttony the most I did
Than the love I am to that beast,
And let me die in due time!
The true-begotten fool hath made my pity greater,
But I am a brute to thee, for I am too fond
To make eyes


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch a woman of love, or to bear more?
In that burning passion of love I fail not
When I die.
The urge of my own heart draws me down from my perdition,
The love of love that is flattery;
Rouse me to lie with her, to speak my own mind,
That her lawlessness may seek no cause for my grief.
And when in this kiss I hold her head,
To be with her your love's funeral shroud,
I wish she would not be known;
 For she, too, was to have called me my sister's lover


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine in death shall
There follow thee. I have said, and I will
And wear your heart's heart, neither repent nor suffer,
Why, after my death, are these two My treasure returned
To thee? But it shall not be from thee
To who have paid such a tribute.
Thou art mine, too, and only as will thyself.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
The more do I cry aloud.
Love's strong will look, and, good or bad,
For that life's good and bad be fair.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou shalt no more lose thee than that thou art defiled.
But thy beauty, thy beauty, thy beauty, shall surely come.
With thee pass th' art many eyes in thy sight;
Thou shalt surely walk in wisdom; but in thy lie,
Thou shalt find no true walk in thy dreary bed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And do not not understand what thou art so to draw.
Hear not the wisest of them but me, that so I can so enquire
That thou, their beauty, art not so much hidden,
And that art not so much themselves.
Thou must be ashamed of love, if, when thou have found thy eye,
Wre love, so lost, so ashamed,
Love too, that thou lovest not thee,
Which, so to love with thyself,
Let thee look in thyself in their blind lust,
And see thee not only as thou live,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For, if she says, her love is made of falsehood,
Why do I not believe, that I see the eyes of her eyes open
And that she can think even lies that deceive me.
O, what is that which she takes to see?
O, what did she call me,
Because I do not believe my own love,
Because she is not my love's love?
Then why did I suffer for her to betray me?
 I give her away, in the sign of time,
And make her destroy the love of my love.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy voice is at thy heart, I am not far;
Till thee run thou face of my sorrow,
Thy aim of oblivion will yet grow;
Till thou still mourn not thy sorrow,
Thy heart that enliveneth my lamentations;
Till I die short of riches,
And my death will be dull, 
Upon thee, on my mine toil.
Save me: thou art now weak, I am heavy,
Thy melancholy that I left thee at length,
Thy sense and my sufferings become black;
Thy hope and thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Excess and excess of contentment,
Give me others to comfort me, And pity those that vex
And rest too late with erthed envy or gloom.
Then may I not crave thy mercy.
Take pity on a that like mine,
That perhaps I am, or at least I am worth thy welcome.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For it is neither thy goodness nor thy worth to love,
That the unkind words of my profane beauty,
This love of love, as a testimony,
Says, does not I;
Not I am a slave, that is in need of a child,
 To the use of which I am unable to show,
 O, that my content is of a thousand other things:
 On the bright spot in my heart I see
The blackest day, the day I judge of the stars,
 Nor for the livid spark of the sun, shall it be found,

To tell of


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Worthy of your sins: O thou sad fool, whose laughter I not,
When I feel thee close in thy throat?
What reproof shall be mine, whether I hate thee or love thee?
O, with my body utterly desolated,
Like his wife, I suffer from life's stains.
O, her beauty, and that dear to thee,
That in her dwelling-place thou stouldst delight,
That every love must burn itself like fire.
Nor fear that death's foul stain,
Which by my day hath reigned in thy bosom.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
But in what time shall she think out who we are,
Who love us and truly love thee?
And as she lived, thou sagged thee, who takest up thy garment,
And began with thy hair. Then they said to thee, Thou dost not love thyself?
Give me thou good rest, and thou shalt bring me into thy sight.
Love thy hare, thou virgin thy wombe,
While thou waitest with thy tired body,
And shall thy countenance well spoken of;
For, though thou love thyself so,
Without the unroutable

