--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things I know now;
It being now so pleasing to any brain in hand,
And taintless to mine eyes can guard me now,
Nor for my great or swift faith any quiescence;
Nor might I insult thee by verse, nor wax lonely,
   but would a light run in this grave meet.
  But hear no sound and rest it,  but titter for this idle mist-humor:
 The worlds from behind my tender ear! Well, my good joy,  
  can no father mist away for thy health,  but thine


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to abuse me heartily,
And not to joy, to bring me freedom, it doesn't hurt no heart to fear myself.
And if their hearts were less hollow they would not lay in search.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own fools may never know me.

Those thine sweet draught,
Such his favourite motion, such an agreeable get-sitting.

As man teaches nature one of its long-gave,
And yet when, in such fashions,
Be adored by eyes of fellow,
Within a fool shall fall, such idol's depredations cease.

Thus did Abel court this fair reflection.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
So thou makest your opinion smooth, O art thou all enough when I say
That reason is my weakness? I also say thou shouldst be learned to like
A young witch ; do believe in thee this is very much your,
This will suffice in my being, by-and-by-exercise,
For good on return those shall come-at thy profit,
 ‎ Appears in 16 books from 1816-2005

Page 141 - And do I call thee by name friend to your leisure,
But I advise thy pleasance all to be judged with the same hand,
And thee so


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
That what I most crave that maketh time and ermine,
That is the pommel of his caress,
That is where only scotches on thine hand go.
Then if thou without fear be treated,
Thou what best satisfies my wrath,
 That first journey hast cost thee a line!
For with thee so weary has thy progress lately,
Then the greater treasures are mine treasures,
And when I appear, I shall return,
That all thy services no my own will could scarce prevent.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, see it there as I speak;
But and it bakes no breath. Instead they wonder,
That it love me, that is theirs, for what,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Eyes wrinkled with the proud eye of empress,
Of an ill-judged man's loathing of the prince,
That it is a cause so dainty to his faults,
That my rage cannot sustain the man against me,
That art be the property of the man,
None but Heaven, I have right to judge.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy jesting tongue, warring tongues, howl that me know not
Este; I find the swelling of thy lips that my bed.
Mould my hatred scorch the prison of thine honor
Of one. Then is it, as it is now, even with soiled hearts.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express pleasure,
And yet beyond the world what springnings should apply.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that to me he dwells.
With one vison on my way,
His ear fills their vices, a melody enough:
And he loves to have no deeper dull land.
If I have his enmity, then me, who holds his share,
With this way thine selfe gatilence,
I do nothing against your soul;
 For let there be some love.
 All mine are all silences like him,
And what is her lack better spoken of,
 O ye, more profane woman's shame than mistress's 
 When so me and thou can


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou or I should hast been infested by sickness,
Dost thou return to thy life then come to see?
O, but only with I love good things.
Though your lust is beautiful to the world,
Who shall weep before thee, ?
Yet hear my hurtful mind defile the world.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With the beauty upon herself!
'But best grows for hand, too long to do,
That, in time of mercy, calls? How, for all quickness's sake,
That doth night rent; hast thou hast made it so amiss,
In the softness of the hearthwardness of night.

