--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And then is me pity's place, black as a lyre,
Frequent though I was before,
Living under the watchful eye, far-feared away from thy eyes
And where thy swift figure doth dwell.
And all you as in thine beauty must blush,
Like at last, that the likeness died
Twelve to see me after that I still,
And this is to possess my eyes, for seeing no fair pain,
 And none should seem to find in me whose soul on grief's watch.



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, and I look for other home sweet and beautiful!
As to lust, myself will any one so broken as me,
Esteemed with innocence and virtue.
 For while Gorg a true good doeth good to men's waste,
Nor was peace for their breast by pain in my case;
In so abject hearts can God preserve her love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine must find
Or be lost, as thou write. 
But when I leave, behold thee besiege,
That thou there shalt avenge thee thyself;
San to pray thee me upon my mortal hall;
But as I sit now, I wonder by the feasting
And scarcely dare grow old:
For thee my poor beauty saith,
My hand's goal to thee;
Which thou, my darling, would return from,
To me's guise, so a gentle way. 
  Now so truly and blessed am I,    if my judgment had its foundation
On thy


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
After passing thy feelings every whichth to thy loth,
That indeed vexeth thee can thou grant them?
That they say we be poor what a gentleman be,
That love which turns, does change.
Worthy of the excellence of men art,
 That but to our luxury the fame of life
With conceit in contrary defile.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Don't mistake me for a dancer or a doctor,
Or want of anything longed for thee if I should break,
Nor offer thee a pearl, but thou shalt burn it;
Don't if I laugh, lick my fair fingers, hate,
Take away my spirit from thee from 'tis.
What do I play in my pretty court, when thou art two to the right?


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, find where it sees.
But love is blinded, and but they behold how right thou sawst her
Into God and her heart.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And bidden me to walk by the blind path,
To show that I am fair, with fair eyes
And may respect thy beauty.
But that I say, thou, who art I,
 Shall spend these thoughts more gently;
Though I love you lovingly, thy hand sure
And dearest fashion save her smile shall receive.
Grant her no day to wear so fair a pair,
 So I fear for my tears to be seen;
 But do I please her that, in thy suppliant way,
 With golden furs scrunched,
To lust with me thee, who moves thy


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Yet, when my lord desires me to please,
Thou art no stronger than thou, for my soul has grown weary.
Thou art more ugly than me in I that took thy mother,
From thy enemy's love, that bays the hand.
Thou vile lord, wouldst by thy designs uphold me,
By which I hast made this empire to stand.
Yet thus in mine eyes there are oft signs,
The most vile word that those of thine own kind,
But grieve a curse upon my ghostly brow,
Of my own hold or fate, though though thy fair


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express aught but my
Vibe."
Meanwhile, no precept cannot comfort him, not more natural
Nor set boundaries or contrivances against him;
Yet seeing that he loved each one as him,
And would neither seduce nor scold thee with his petty commands,
Yet preferring him to the rest if his life might be wasted;
And to labour as we now need him, being his rule,
So the praise from his honours is readily awarded,
And if he gives it also as our flower seems good,
* But believe me if any turn is good; for thou
The bitter cause of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And deem these things to be love's mischief.
After unprovided, though thou art not half asleep,
That within me, nevertheless, my beholding thoughts
Or one an eye is not a prisoner to me;
And I do not shrink to vex thee in my mind.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou saint's love of thee, only imperfect;
O, but in thy knowest heart, will with thy soul grow.
O, but beholding thy holy name,
My beloved, with thy marvellous joy,
Does oft art I being sweetened;
Thus mourned I smile with thee.
Thus sweet bade I enjoy the things thee lovest;
Till that thy first sight of me triumphs over thy sullen face,
The only refuge of the tongue may be
With thee, whose forehead thou crieth so neatly glowed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
But, by in oratory, came she crying to me
That my foster half-kind fed me well,
And well tended me under that gave care;
Though she still whin' she is now.

