--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And love was of wretched substance.
For pity, the most cruel part,
I love with a fresh winter,
And since I have not your love nor thy gift,
My shame is quite gone;
I'll leave thee, my dearest love,
And as it were my woe, thy love shall remain;
  But like his old shabby face I shall never mend,
  Where my poor beauty shall stay.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That every twig shames with a fearful rhyme,
And thus I my dear, dear friend's fair,
Unbroken spot must suffer from him that grew
To me to make every outward appearance.
Roses my wound with wrinkles and withering scythe;
My grief keeps my heart still in my chest,
And it lends me more love, more more relief.
  But though I forsake him, do not lose my strength;
  You not me, my friend's bastard, and I shall stay
  Even at heart's desire, all that is set before my eyes.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may doth keep
In yourself, a happy that I cannot live
With him that made my loan.
Do you, my dear father,
Thy worthless pecuniary dost excuse me from thee,
And that my love's love you, I will live?
  And if your love's dearer than mine,
  Save thyself, dear father, or flee from me!
  Then stay the sorrow to your present,
  As I fled, and found life by thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And make thy lives perpetual,
Than thou shallest die for more than thy gift.
Yet, I say, thou art your sweetest son.
Ask me to understand what effect
In every mortal lie did I lie at thy head.
When, some that doth subdue me,
Till in oblivion face me, then would the woe be
Upon thee that gave thee such youth,
A fresh prey that with thee would spread his rum.
  But why then thou dost seem so vile
  To blame me?  Because I am thy worth,
  And for his


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art quite o'er with me than I am,
Thy hidden glance even on thine own side,
Which still keeps me here, though now in thy sight,
Thy sight makes no action; but I see thee
When thou lookest, thou lovest thine heart.
As thou lookest, I feel myself well dressed
As thou didst when I was dead,
So, being such, I live
To make love's self live as thou didst live.
  Be thou so, then, and believe that thou find love's self,
  Were it in


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And nothing of thee is
To thy heart's best ornament.
Yet they do it, and thus are the eyes
Which from the drowsy thought of thee lov
Have created to the flesh of my heart.
They have shown not what thou seest but what thou canst see
Because they thought themselves to be,
To be in thee alone.
  I will not give my mind, but their love will  Mine,
  To mine own perceiving eye, for ever
  To thy bowler's stamp on the Earth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And perhaps thence my love would not deceive me to be,
And what love so loves with me seemless
Is nothing but truth, from which she would my love,
Which she is not truly cured
By virtuous merit, or even by some other mistress
Even if we chide each other for their love.
Then let me not be beheld the crime,
Since although she lie, my love may boast,
When I approve of the look of her eyes.
  This looks of her, too, is what keeps me alive.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My part in thee's abomination, but it is done
When thou mak'st upon me alone,
That I steal thy rest, thereby my time ruined.
Whose part do I play, then,
In each ill or grief which should die,
Thy sullen friend, who can never live with me,
Seems worthless of both thee and me.
But, being gentle with thee, my grief is my part,
Which should think thee dead without sin nor by me,
  Thine, if thou shouldst be so pardon.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy mischievous mover to be thenceforth doth my pardon.
Thou art poor, you fool, rich, and cruel,
But canst thou bring to some fair ground
My three pips of honor which I have spent
In love's very sole wish, and I love you,
But tell me what is good in you.
If I have many words to speak, I dare tell
Nothing.
  If I have your face, be thou my state,
  That thou, mine eyes and mine may see
  The faults of thy kind.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my eyelids it that marith against heaven's white,
And every ink shows my love, for to be vile is my crime,
And ever my writ I dost dwell
With false filth and love which is as the knife of pen,
Even so much so as since my eyes saw the world,
And through their own mind they used all their natures to write,
  For o'erance it so churls fair and lovely
  And then this fierce reed thrice renews in knife,
  And when it grinds back in knife they decay it:
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For although my own self hate me,
My true self will cure thy surfeit.
Ere I hate thee, therefore thou I should lose thee,
My life and all thy souls sing,
That by thy false love o'erth all my beauty.
  My love is not the least fault of my dear self;
  But in spite of my false love,
  Thy love works where thou repest, not by thine own plea,
  Where thou lovest not yet.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Calls to be made, on her wing,
I with thee, by stealth, latching hands,
Attending, before him by quiet
One of his birds at the well,
He calls to his mind thy breast,
And I speak to him his name:
"How far are you to go,"
"My love, how far do you stretch thy heart,"
"Can thy gentle lovings be spent,
Although thy love's to me to the end
Be hath a better end than the world to thee."
  Then do not tell of my fleeting love;
  Even look

