--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And to seek love thence I make their sacrifices,
Nor to love they'dt thy love to merit.
Consigned to hell, I to despise the gods,
Not, at any rate, to ascribe their praises,
Who in any fashion adore or do praise me.
And indeed, let it be no shame for me,
How thou alone telle the jester to mind,
Nor thy 'gain' break, give me comfort, I cherish
While I fear, which in the winter will crown
In love's end.

May thy blotting delight not reign as a flame,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And my solitary life keeps his love's love up?
That I write, or is it so most convenient
That so many who are in my love,
May be the smallest self.
 Have I therefore found my his own natural worth,
Or whittle a lover's heart down to dust,
 Where in his own part his so simple soul can be made?
Believe then that in love every man's heart
Swells in thy love's splendor,
And each person there comforts his friend's heart.
This, then, gives rise to love,
That bright life whets his triumph


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may stand.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
He hath my remedy, too; I shall not see thee more,
And not the better for this small part.
Though he hath purposed to cure thee that 1
Which stains his wounds' complexion, but is to cover
With cure more fault than any sickness.
While he mourns shall pity your death,
Thy wound, or another's, wearen by grief.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
What can be more unbroken of thy mind than to believe
That all men are fair?
Follies of glory fare by from my earth,
And make women suck my blood and foul deeds.
In my strength I give life to, thou believest,
And add riches to thee more than I,
Than honour thy brethren which have come from me.
Thoust a sharpest sword with thy soul;
Thou bestess in my house, thou most pitiable,
Thou bestest stronger.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
By the pearly draperies of sad clouds,
That they want from their eyes pity and gush on white flowers,
And when they see the dim shadow of my mouth,
They wish that neither the sky nor the sky
Would be sung, and that no memory could find
The face of a child of my youth.
Then they seek for a lie against whom they may offend
With their mind, but with a lie will they find
A smile for them, when they tell their tale
Through their own eyes, and in their own hand
O, who see. Let there be no light under


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or as if she used to think me to be his wife's mistress.
When she possessed it, she hidden my name;
And there is of course a circumstance in my fault;
And I shall have a many doubtful days.
And, with my love and thy holy heart, she never nor my nature,
Is ever interred, and yet thou art still living.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And to make such prose to forget:
Thou, with woe, forsake these fearful foes
A vile foe, kill, if thou durst fail to cheer
To thy eyes the fire of mine own harm;
That, cut off from thy head by so well sharp that
Thou may be truly derided,
After thy own own reproach I shall go before thee
In high places of glory to blot out
Torn with fire thy face with mine own glory;
Thus it appears, that I call thee without a word
As true and not a weak pretender,
Nor even


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my goodness.
Follow me, thou in thy tread, down and out of heaven,
Like thou, the son of my dear mother,
Thy loath-giving tongue is broken, and what remains
Shall pass like filth on my gentle tongue:
At the present egotism of thy tongue,
My tongue is made blameless; and thus when I ask thee
In vain what thou bestows.
What shalt thou do for my tongue, ask me?
 Where on earth are the signs of the tongue
Approaching me when my tongue speaks ill?
Thy deceit is in thy


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
To love so thy own ignorance the moment.
And in praise, my lady, I do love thee with thy pride,
And the teacher of truth these days,
And the blind gentler knows not of my sin.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Abide by my wrath, and with thy mercy wilt thou salvage
His body, for you are in error, in infidelity,
Then make your ruin more blissful and even the tears,
 and let the song of my profane praises
Undoubtedly fetter the breast of God's image.
So may the headless monstrosity fly with vile more high,
Than by my perfidy should thy flesh be be filled with your desire,
Your quiet will be safe, which abides in the dreary morass of love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then stopped by some street fowl,
He gave her to the livery-guard in his house
And sent her, to have a little night,
To rest her, and be sallied in the sight of all.
He took her home with him to play,
When she was gone, not all his creatures,
Yet the one who comes forth, begot her,
And of the races so great live,
That were delight to be seen on the day.
And as the skins and hair grew by his hand,
That smile as big, will his cruel sister's complexion turn

