--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who, when I am weary, sing,
O my soul's praise, but my heart's sorrow,
That, for thy sake, I should not feel,
And my heart, that I should love thee.
 O, if thou, in thy joy, desire to love me,
 O, how, when I am weary,
Till, in my grief, I should love thee,
 O, how, when I am bereaved,
Thou art so much to pity, that I should love thee.
O, if thou, in thy grief, desire to love me,

Th


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I should be buried in the midst of my friends?
But my heart is filled with joy,
That I should be buried in the midst of my friends.
And so my love is mine to bear,
And my heart is filled with love,
And I love my friend to love me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will,
And I can no more remain
With thee, nor with thy justice,
Thou shalt never be left with thee,
For thou art my own, and I am thy friend.
But as thou art mine, so I will no more be,
And my fate will be thy own, and my own,
And so I will be thy friend, and my own,
And so I will be thy friend, and my own,
And so I will be thy friend, and my own,
And so I will be thy friend, and my own,
And so I will be thy friend


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy heart is not so well disposed to speak of thee,
Nor will thou'st yet make me a poor woman,
But willst thou, in thy shame, be so much more miserable?
Thy wretched body, thy wretched soul,
And thy folly, thy folly, thy folly,
Thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul,
Thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul,
Thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul,
Thy soul, thy soul, thy soul, thy soul


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And thou art so weak that thou must be thy own judge,
That, if thou be so strong,
Thou shalt be so strong as thy heart,
And this is the way thou shalt find.
Thou art so weak that thou must be thy own judge,
That, if thou be so weak,
Thou shalt be so weak as thy heart,
And this is the way thou shalt find.

And thou art so weak that thou must be thy own judge,
That, if thou be so weak,
Thou shalt be so weak as thy heart,
And this is the


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what thou art, what thou dost thou see,
They know that thou art not beauty, but dost thou be
That which thou art, that which thou art
That which thou dost not know, that which thou art not
That which thou dost not see, that which thou dost not see
That which thou dost not see, that which thou dost not see
That which thou dost not see, that which thou dost not see
That which thou dost not see, that which thou dost not see
That which thou dost not see, that which thou d


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that her love will prove so worthily,
That she might find a love so sweet that she will love
That she might not be so cruel as to love me.
But I am sure that she will love me more than I love her.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy heart is not thus to me but to thee.
Thy eyes are not to me but to thee;
Thy mind is not to thee but to thee;
Thy tongue is not to me but to thee;
Thy heart is not to me but to thee;
Thy tongue is not to me but to thee;
Thy heart is not to me but to thee;
Thy heart is not to me but to thee;
Thy tongue is not to me but to thee;
Thy mind is not to me but to thee;
Thy tongue is not to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my heart's lust.
And yet, when I have been told that my love is strong,
That I am not far from your joy,
That my love is as strong as thy heart's heart's heart's heart's heart,
And yet, when I have been told that my love is weak,
That I am not far from your joy,
That my love is as strong as thy heart's heart's heart's heart's heart's heart's heart,
And yet, when I have been told that my love is strong,
That my love is as strong as thy heart's heart's heart's heart


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that I do not love thee with my mouth,
For I am bound to love thee with my heart,
That I may not have thee to myself.
But, when thou art come, I will be thy love,
That I may not love thee with thy heart,
That I may not be thy love with thee,
That I may not love thee with my heart,
 That I may not be thy love with thee,
That I may not love thee with my heart,
That I may not be thy love with thee,
That I may not love thee with my heart,
That I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But with thy own love, thou art my love,
And thou art mine love, and thou art mine love.
And thou shalt not love thyself, but I love thee.
For thou art my love, and thy love is my love,
For thou art my love, and thy love is mine.
For thou art my love, and thy love is mine,
And thy love is mine, and thy love is mine.
For thou art my love, and thy love is mine,
And thy love is mine, and thy love is mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And brings her to the rescue.
And when she is far away,
She keeps her face in the way,
And does not heed her voice,
And does not remember the words of her mother.
Her fair face, her fair face,
Her fair face, her fair face,
Her fair face, her fair face,
And yet she is not in the way,
And keeps her face in the way,
And does not remember the words of her mother.

