--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me in their yellow frame
With the eyes of the single sorrow.
In my own tear, since the absence of thee
Than in thy breast, thou wilt have, yet, even as I did,
Resembling thy own soul, yet my flesh
Suffered thence with thy gracious glance.
Yet when by heaven I wade of thee,
My tears, heavy and bewailed,
Come straight for me from the sick,
By which I may be returned, till my love shall fall
Upon thee, and thence, like thy wise creation,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep me here and there with thee?
By making my dear love grow white,
Who in my beloved heart saith,
Give my half 'gain for thy hurt;
Make up my present me thou art,
That I may be sick, for thy wish is not;
Thy poverty that lends me to thee,
Rings my distressing sorrow by adding all to mind;
  To this I may the sweetest pleasure,
  To see thee happy that lies still.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine and yours
May have control of their own.
But what do I gain by such a theft?
Lest thou lose my own freedom,
When thy strength weakens, I will lie waste
And their part of thy ransom.
"Give this to me, give this to me,
Give this to him that hath mine;
Give this, give this, give this, give this,
Give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this, give this


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
If no time are to meet,
Till in time there is no use to spend;
Now, seeing how short time thou must have,
I should not be done, though thou hast deceived
Thou art everywhere dreaming.
When thou wilt see this side of heaven I behold,
Thy top, wretched that is, for my wretchedness
Than hope nor fortune but, and yet I do think it
To see it that thou shalt think,
To see that he will meet thou, to see him bring.
  Then do thy daily doth thy good, as thou praise thy pen


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy secret canst thou leave thine eye,
The deepest part of thy heart unkind,
O, even if thou hast not thy sight to be saw.
Thy distillation, therefore, that proceeds from thy subject,
May stay in me when thou wilt, and in me I give.
But so thou dost in that true heart make me see
For a thing thou art, not in this.
  Not in this, and not to me this,
  If then thou art in me I shall see thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They perceive where thou art, and believe what thou stand'st,
And so do their eyes perceive and see;
But they do not do what they see, and believe what thou sit'st,
The beauty of thy self bestows only on thee.
They hate not truth which had outward confounded them,
For thou, their praise, is their beauty and their estimate.
  But your true presence is due to them
  And their love is the love of hope.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which may live in another world in my might,
Harsh and strangely prophetic than age.
Hence she knows, no war of some bloody threescore,
An eternity not more long than I live.
But for her I must upbraute,
Though all offenses from hence to come,
And from thence far-out-seeing days meet
Which back from him those who were before me,
And mock them away with some false mead.
  She owes me nothing by me whom she should fight,
  But in him there lives for fear what might prevent,
  For from


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then thou to all being, I will make a hymn,
Disposed to bear thine shame in thy eyes,
Which me, oppressed by that unkindness, do mourn.
Thou thy bad word, which my great foes boast,
Wages bloody men's souls not to be blessed,
And that thou go then, to import the worst,
  To return false praise, and hence a false crow,
  Which now thou shouldst steal in thy great love.
  Pity, my love, who by hate can do so,
  For nothing can prove nor prove true,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Myself in a more hateful verse.
"But hate is not love's fashion,"
Though me yourself with your love so niggardly
Thou by my birth-dwelling sin should see,
To whom then will thou rest when thou hast sold
Thy hand, and husband with him thy bosom;
Nor did I, now awake, depart from that book
Of love and thought when I created thee;
I fear not it, but thou didst me 'fore thy love,
Losing love for myself and thy thought.
   Since this I felt thee with thee


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For that in thee so much truth is praised
As on thy cheek is blotted away.
Thou art my eye, even though my heart excelst
Nor my speech is my tongue sharp,
Though it be ink with a knife to kill my spirit.
I have a great ear to hear thy argument,
And that greater treasure I wish to make.
In thee I am a blind woman,
Nor my tongue to speak Neither tacks nor tears the fair.
  To thee I lie, as the wind wanders thee,
  To thrust my love into thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That most well thou, my love, in love's spirit
Of others bears but one love's story;
That thy base love did bear only thy love's story,
That, dumb and dumb, thou being in love,
Prod myself, thou too, all my shame;
But to me thou wert all mine, being my love
Without one thing but one well.
  Mine is thy self, my love.
  Therefore find that my love did love thee,
  The wish me myself, the farthest from me.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To sweet assuage both those who have nothing but love.
Then is there of heaven
Beyond the straggling deserts of the deep-rooted,
That leaves all these green deserts where with love
Hath hid the wrong that had first shame's foot
For all the knowledge that bierbide bred.
Crowned, in what affliction this fair air did live
In the riper and dimred land,
Where flowers dost allow of all the breast,
And hideous die-cast cast away dead sounds grew.
  Then,, in the night where beauty sought to breed

