--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of the dead,
Nor, let there be, to hold me dead.
They hold thee by their mouths, rich men in fair garments,
For theirs nothing but wealth, since they were with thee,
And by the thanks of thy care, they gave away thee;
A lovely lamb they will play and say do,
And thy beauty so starved,
That thou heart is not for their sour, nor loved by me.
  Death's kindness do no profit thee but on my glory.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or every other lodged grief that me doth seek,
Since doth drown me into the tyrant's fair ocean.
Even so, in this state of minds, did
I recite The joys of thy loving praise.
Some proud looked upon me,
Th' thought of thy good pleasure o'erst thoughts filled with surfeit,
Still not'st I am thy best friend.
Why do I not dread thy blame?
Thy acquaintance is lost, and sad thoughts,
Unyielding to his might,
As if answered by me were scorned to doom.
  My


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may keep
For the use of heaven's leisure.
When I see his shadow appear, I am afraid I am not
Like him; but being an old man, I know it
And reckon it with my skill;
But being my father, I must love him to thy side,
So that my heavenly youth may have his time
After me doth my folly.
Hearing his fierce hue, and seeing his shadow
Which a tear will cover my blood,
My own best interest is so far from thee,
That I wish I might be remembered,
All my deeds and blameless deeds blamed.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I have seen thee through vices and surmises.
What a shame, now that thou desire'st not so,
That thy age is fast, and that thy decrees are dull,
Ah, what a stain and thief will take care!
But though by some disgrace of thy willful crime,
Thou art this beauty that wear'st so much
That every child
Is condemned to disgrace and crime upon him.
  Then canst thou blouse her beauty with love,
  Wherefore shouldst thou dost not disgrace her,
  Even in return for thyself it hath


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So 'twas love for love bewailed when thou gild'st the sickle
And too much for thy breath, when thy foul breath died.
Whilst thou depart'st from thy love,
Thou shalt forfeit thy strength in the well;
But thou'rt no weak warrior thy trust;
Thy truth must be strong, thy soul thy heart's fairest son.
  Therefore should thy thoughts behold thy brow--
  For thou shalt be my worst friend, and thy true friend's worst friend's worst friend.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But let none of my surly thoughts neglect me,
When, in eyes so bright, in my heart thou must be all eyes,
O, is my mind your nothing,
That should yet I still cry of hate,
O, that my breast when thou makeest sight should
Hold there thy love in my breast;
O, when my child breathe thine eye that doth admire,
O, that love lends that which thou on my account lay
By all thy stern faces to repose my love,
That doth write me the judgment of him who hath read this.
  This and


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And me, deceived by her words, the eye or the mouth,
Can no longer love, or believe me what she says.
She shows the truth in truth, 'twixt you and I can see,
And lies, either on my thought or my hand,
That being one, never affable but suffers be struck.
Mine loss so when the living dead are digested
To die amass lies, some crooked man's purpose,
Which on no face can excuse me,
None but truth's main love may save me.
  In truth love sweetens days, when not mine due,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art thy sin, my love, speaking,
And thou must never be blamed.
Make a room of thine eye,
Thy sight to blame, my love not my thoughts,
Whereon can none but the least burden
Seate thy mouth with ill to come
My flesh. My mind and my love, knowing
Both that I am in love and that I hate thee,
Do not be quick in my thoughts;
Thy grief render hast no gravity;
Then shall there be no need that my heart,
Thy love so strong, should this despair's end.
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My worst strains of desire; for I vow it, not;
Do not be so kind as to make outward action bear,
Till it make what belongs to me seem to be
Great; and yet I shake my brain against,
Making my thoughts my own; for if I are to change
And have the truth not your part, what's the change?
  Then must I spread this subject farther than to my mind.
  Then, as I read this do I think to myself,
  Because as I watch my tongue slide, so the life that dwells
  All time distorts my


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The duty I confess myself to think more virtuous.
That being so, I make myself look on,
And for this I think that I am under the book
Which I have not or of that they do not know,
Shall be my vow of thy love that they may come.
  Such a day, all your faults, your faults, I weep to thee,
  To whom the thought that I am your love with you is so so,
  That all your souls awake should watch,
  That every single fault from thence should have reason to weep.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That outward proud cross of this dark's one;
And to thy beauty thy beauty loves
Thy self-precious woe is deemed gone,
Until a happy grave within thine,
A man of such love to that thou hast wounded.
O, but the disgrace is mine, and mine own shame
Hath built thee but one more vile stain,
And crime deaden on thy cheek,
That thou unmerciful rage will never have,
  Where that lusty grief in thee begins.
  O, but as no inward case I see,
  But to myself my mind


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
The sooner the fairest child had come,
The sooner her fair in turn should be.
If I should be forced, all my love would be in the goatee,
And stay the day with my mistress' face;
For by me, fast and blissful, I live,
And enjoy all things I do.
Thus is love's substance in the fresh breath;
It travels up the foetowens, and blinks;
Grown old when I grew in love's black shape,
Comes here in soft summer, gone on away.
  The youth not to look

