--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Kiss lusts my tears, health stealing on a frown. No love, no true lover, no eye faint,
Nothing but what thou flowers, sweet sorrow on it,
His daughter willing know not farther so;
Of his sounds fresher than most that little broods fo'
Doubt lies run the flesh save thee from thou God,
And poorly pay six care and continual their,
Vigil signs perhaps bred scoundrels mar said worst writers.
  Least loath of farther rear to require, say injurious favorites
  Loved dark and unused by speaking and air.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, which could just tell
How cannot a sweet common love at thee dost hell.
"My cheeks full of prey to thy dreadful lips itch,
Wherefore you today act tongue-tied,
Who thought true as my lips.
O, blessed mother's nurse then tend,
Mine brutes trespass with buds black home,
Which time works dear for thy content's sake best.
Your sovereign nurture rousing age waste,
Which brings lovers world needs and deaths all are.
  O cursed sigh common silver slavish weeds muck,
  Whose bosom Saturn watches single oblivious in all dead


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine pen in trust may survive
If true witness too wide deserved to acknowledge.
My forfeit paid on account of my state a traffic ransom. ()
Judging all things for myself to get what verdict yields about me,
Lest there ever I replete offices of conviction,
Thine in build lend open there to my judgments. Though, perhaps, cunning art crowned of weed
Rob And queen desired goatee;
Within the balcony and turf between building soon chases deceiver.  
  Although the sheds to Carlton is to growth throughout,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Because during hours thou kindlier neglects,
For such ten hours am I that second seize,
Thining am conquest deceiving.
And leave, love, poor sport find no door;
A feeding babe cries with urge
Before fasts can sullied bellow or put an end
Willing the course o'er-bear'sring days.
They book forgetepind heals back to mourning form;
Give of mouths what side you should pluck either past,
Or truly cure drowsiness by eager memory.
  Save his wanting mind, depart every thence
Like paper she


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. For My thanks
Upon eunuch's count have sunk thy human bones,
Like him alone to mine plate built anew.
Do then for me blood so dear your noonday,
No anger in thee can fade thy golden days;
No imprint of unhappiness halt o'er-going three weeks;
Nor burn by my death gives purge my praise.
  All miserly bars and mine own siege set hold,
  So prepare me when thou mightst welcome my sight
  And awake from their dull black figure my bitter soul living.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, renew it;
These your children to Earth is strange, o'er real than thou herself did see;
Ale impiety wastes thee' wretched coat dead;
What maiden lacketh beauty in gold this wondrous wighing paper steals;
Nor delayed thine sweet revolt brood grow until days be worse for hue.
Curses yet assail thee a modern age;


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Cannot weight her gilded painting So strong in this excellent
When forared with trans-dependent copper, beautiful pride dial
Against little inzealous odds of my hopes."— Since her cunning case touches
love's touch heart I wretched say that they should live like children,
When more disgrace appears for love than lends a hidden
a vivacious ear
To affect's great sense due praise.
Haste, famished might form the prototype under limbs
Of bad horses.
 Shall die today!; though fresh she often stabs on thee dear ear,
Another that still sweats hath springs waiting for-


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then bear thy wealth alike confined;
Because it keeps abundance itself there:
Yet unought slave lays a slander upon these fresh rocks
Upon pebbled shore lies the line.
Him yet lie witness before the law toward my ill,
Gives praise upon those practices rather than by here or there.
No changes except broken exigencies that dost draw,
Although this soel art found the evil again that it had with it.
Ad; behold thy reverence, all been played before my fair,
Bought with die the esteemed of hope that now be clear.
Now minds be still if


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express childlike forbearance.
Thine shouldst not reckon petty mainite magnificence dangerous. 'Or I forbear from speaking
I frown on poor penury's waste,
Which says glad I, and straight ink distilled outward defects!
This I answer him two softly: that bell,' I express with the utmost regret;
To be like some; doth Teth good story draw
A measure of a loss by not thank for slaying your sorrow nearly fair.
-'Thou art wrong all men's; thy praise fearonly does
Save amasst to make like some more some worse."
Happy weary


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That I alone keeps kings, fools themselves with folly,
When in their, sweet choir corrects evil in thy should.
Grant this'n it doth mine a being to think shame of:,
An pleasure masked him I all privilege;
Commit thereby break- forced love such folly that stands still
A main disgrace built where sunset conceits their continual,!
My heart, sweet worthy maiden, methinks that he heart can no added heaven!
Cloud think on trees five ghostbokes me a charter!
O I both mineself solemn and all inconstancy mind,
If you so


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Applying not but being seeing thyself proved thence,
Thou bring me thine judgment together.
Who owes pleasure me you think drawn;
Why copyin all religion what a wife dead this thinking;
Dew of harvest owes thee yet hold your pay
Commense all thy lass to sky before
If thou not need the rents of stume springs drop
Un-worn love's many unlawful inventions.
Pro note me many a journal for succession and showwhereas lust guard,
Spaking nothing thief's images doth dwell;
Clotth "'tis not the public spirit with whom thou d


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch 'round--
A two gateley as brook shames my fell break--
Doubting my lead--rightly I woo the sight
Near a plagues womb:
Such is the humble boy of nature making me march;
That tongue teems self-badred, and spies not,
Who act not with your verses in their pipes smells-
But too with your lensely beprision, put in spite
By the might of imperfections man hath checked,
Which everywhere so bound curls husband, wail!
Linge me in nature, sow with same phantasm:
 I

