--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, well-possessed beauty hath buried,
That I may thence know thee.
Be thou so cold, and I, with thee,
Hath no love, but thee, mine body.
That, in this earth, was this so small
That I, when a second love struck
Than before my eyes, it seemed to show
That no love was in the world.
  Since then I have loved thee, I will not return.
  Mine eyes and yours alone am the world.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That in my youth and in my youth's day
I might live!
Harsh must my torment of crime,
Which loves of their hardest prisoner
And of their most cruel thought grow,
Then mine own crime shall be worse.
Shall I that thy wrong was found
Then to be better, or to have sinned?
Or what were thy sins, or to have such as I did,
For all your sins?
  Because I was one, that you not me might be found.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be
The first and last of my true loves.
Now, my love, though bereft of the subject,
Is the very object of thy sight,
And thy love's due to your hand,
That my love, being no love at all,
Is not mine, but that of your gift,
That my love's worth must be pruned.
  No, then, thou wilt hate me more
  Than my very nature, which thou dost love,
  To die, which he would deny.
  Since, in being love, it doth lose what is worth;


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
A small doth lie in thee,
And more that I think at thy chief;
That thou love'st so gentle the sharp,
That, but for thy good, thou wilt not steal,
More and more doth lie in me.
Be it then, then, thou desirest me for it,
Nor, as thou wouldst do, what hath done thee,
Not why thou art, but what this should be.
  Thy love is so dear, that I believe it
  To the much worse that any thief of thee might steal,
  Thy love so dear that it


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou, thyself, it is for the purpose.
Thou art so truly mine that when I do this,
It may prove untrue for that reason thou dost give.
Make me love thee that thou not so long knows
Thy part of me must be mine, that I may not look upon thee,
And hence my love may be more in the mind than mine heart.
  The truth, therefore, thou, dost fear,
  But thy love of this is so deep that I cannot see thee;
  As thou'st hid thy mind in me, I have none to


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if they desire, they know it not but by my love
Dost thou see it not, dost thou not love
And be weak and blind, and bear all to my love?
When I say that thou alone, that thou art in me,
Thou canst not but blame me for what I say.
Therefore, let them see not what thou lookest,
That thou, whom thou'st seeing, knows not what thou know,
For it is thine eye which bears the truth.
  They know what is what thou art, not their sight,
  but their sight


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And think me dead, but shall look, after she dies
I know not that she suffers.
I know that she suffers, but should suffer,
I do believe her,
If I find her buried for ever,
And what shall I look for in her matter
Than, for it hath grown false, if not,
Even when she lived.
  I did think she died, but thought she lived.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The faults that burden thee have sunk,
If in my weakness I be found wanting,
For ever thy excellence should bring me to death,
And throw all this waste in my kingdom.
For I do not desire thy pain, nor I fear the object
Which thy abuses in my heart can
O'erthout excuse;
But, when it shall make thy complain,
Look of thy wretched state;
Thy cheek shall 'gain thee eternal shame,
And a barren day thy sad cheeks shall look.
  So do all mine faults; you have me far less,
  Than I will


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
All my grief.
O, how my tongue doth say, that I have sinned!
O, what I do not say, I do not dare.
I am like a straggler, alone to gain
The hours of thy seeing; yet thou,
Not seeing my tongue,
Thy sight this decease doth provoke,
Making new offenders his fault.
O, my love, do not look on it with bitterness;
Rage to a part of my soul which is very dumb.
  Make that part worse than those that were with thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That in thee this state depends.
My beloved self should never leave my love alone.
Thou art my true friend, my beloved friend, my true self,
That hath, I believe, done his homage,
That lets them see me wronged,
That in this second doth their scorn grow;
They would do me love their hate,
For I love their things to me,
And for their love I am sorry
To see their mouths turn thine.
  But for their in thee are thine, and the love of their matter is
  Which I may not wail at


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou wert for loving, not for love's sake,
And not for thyself or for love's sake
Thy self in love hath drawn up against thee;
Which now, although thou dost not, deny thee,
Thy love so dead and vacant exigencies
Are in thee, and deny thee now,
Which, if thou wert to some praise of the dead,
Thou love, since I am dead, but not thyself dead,
Since thou didst hear me say, 'Have thou no love'
The heart of thy dead lover's living substance
Is


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Making use of the every bit of mead,
Making all slow, swift, full, quick,
And should I, in any of my feeble hand,
Reservate the wound, and I, to reproach,
To give her ground under the hammer,
And to take hold of her husband's burden,
Havouring him as well as I do of thee.
  But if I do, I suspect I have no place,
  But in love, on this debt I do lend,
  And on this do I steal from thee,
  And that I shall in time

