--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Who would put me to shame by such wickedness.
But if thou art of such shame, I will not turn thy sight away.
For the grave shall be my bed, and my soul my bed,
For the sorrow shall die in thy eyes,
And if thy heart has left me, thou art to be left,
For in my flesh I shall live with thee,
For in thy sight I shall see thy face,
And in thy mind I shall see thy face.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For I am the master of the weak heart's beat,
That may tell of the shame of my soul's shame
And love's shame.
When the time comes, when my heart is ready to give,
For the good that I can do,
 I will bring the shame of my soul's shame to the world.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will be
To pay thee, but if thou do not
Thou must live, let me be thine,
I'll give thee a man of my own,
And I'll have thee to thy hand,
For he that pays me, I will give thee a man
I'll give thee, and thou shalt be thy own.
But now thou art gone,
I shall give thee a wife to love,
And now thou shalt live, and I shall give thee
But for ever I'll keep thee in thy hand.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou shalt bear the sight of her,
That thou mayest live to see her,
And that her love is gone.
If thy heart was filled with regret,
And dost thou dost be tempted,
Thou dost have so much as thy heart's delight
That, with such sweet love, thou mayest die,
And that, with so much regret, thou mayest live.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And thou shalt know that I am thy father,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy father's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And thou shalt know that I am thy son's son,
And


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And if thou think that thy glance is far away,
And what thou shalt see thou shalt see.
So love, thou blind fool, that is by love,
Thou heart's best friend, that thou knowest not what thou see.
If thou art deceived, love, and see not what thou dost see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She may not but think that I should be her mistress.
I love her for her own sake, and my love for her will,
That is why I am so sure that I love her,
And that my love for her may make me happy.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what thou didst for me was that which thou hast done
To torment me with thy words.
Thou art my revenge, thy true, true self;
I am not as my enemy, but my prey,
As thou didst me, so long as thou dost remain
In this earth, as long as thou dost reign in it.
Thou art my vengeance, my true, true self,
That when thou didst not hate me,
Thou art not as my foe, but as thy true self.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such no more tenderness than to say, 'What shall I do?'
My tongue is always softened by my pleasures,
But I find no pleasure in words, and never feel
That I can call myself virtuous, though I love thee
And pity thee with all my worth.
O, where art thou, my sweet self, so well endowed,
Where do I see thy beauty, so well-bred,
And how do I feel your beauty, so well-bred,
That you should love me more than me?
How do I love thee, my dear self,
Which I love, and


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For they make thee happy by what they say.
For, my dear, I am so sick that I cannot see,
And I am so sad that I cannot love thee,
And I do not love thee with my heart.
And if I be worthy, I shall make thee a new kind,
And, when I have been sick, I shall love thee with my eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To God, who, in thy goodness, gave me a wish,
That in thy body, with thy virtue,
Had I, to be healed, of thy pain,
And of thy wound, to live with thy death.
But thou art my shame, thy wife, and thy child,
Who, by thy grace, has given me a name,
And, like thee, the child of a man,
 Who, by thy good works, have given me a name,
And, like thee, have given me a life.
So my soul, being now old,
Wore my good


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
The song of wild beasts.
That then may not all her children be troubled,
And thus may the beast of my breast,
Though I had in her.

