--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of the dead,
Nor, let there be, to hold me dead.
They hold thee by their mouths, and thou, them they bring
For their proof, being their thine.
They leave me, and their marvellous jaws,
Which ill their love iniquity doth lie
By their unbending lips, as the blood of a dead man,
Who, being held by this eternal slander,
Lest thy ghost leave him, it restrains,
That slumbers with thee; but they shall deny thee,
  And they kill thee


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To spite or to spare to allow others to thy tyranny?
Or is it ever so, even in this petty fault?
You, then, have no beauty but what thou dost delight,
Which to thee is to me so fixed,
That so my love is to thee nothing but truth.
If you say you love me well, I will make thee hold your guard.
I love you, thy love, and that which you hold,
For that you love me so and that I am to thee!
  If then I love you, and thou make me bear my burden,
  Then thou


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can not steal,
For now it's not to shame me,
O, but to thee with me I allege
That thou dost not mine neglect,
Since in me thou have but mine love:
Take another on this and fall into my rage,
Thy true jealousy will not shake
A-bout this thought in thee,
But, though well graciously, thou still wilt
Avenge what I have done to thee.
  All this, to thee, this is my entombed thanks:
  Then, though I be no more, thou mine,
  I'll return


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou art worse than the one who worth'st loss
Adsabhors the world's most virtuous parts.
The world's most virtuous parts, it is true,
Possess much, not a tenth of what she doth give
To others yet, but in favor of her best.
All this, therefore, my dear friend, is true.
The world's most virtuous parts, that which they do do,
Are more true than thy self.
  Thy self worth, my dear friend, is none more.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thy head thine may tell,
And to grant me such it was,
Makes me suspect of that pure, or wanting,
The quality of thy soul's life,
And that this ill weight of mine lends
To all things to your impostor's fair.
Mad that me to have thee in thy frame,
In unyielding love, all is found,
And for these I deny, not blest but bear.
  Save me, then, that thy soul might contain
  That, as some limping beast, a loss no nature
  I now seem to yield


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And seldom in their sight
They see it as if they had seen thee
The doves' flower, the rose, the trilby,
On the far side of their faces at their sweetest sweetance.
Spare me, my dear love! with thy decease
Thy time is gone; but by thy disgrace I'll waken
And die young, gone from beauty thou forswore.
  Thus compare this time with that other:
  Where thou pluckest life's flower thou most dost rob,
  Where thou wilt die, buried by a vile widow.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or, upon my fair eyes, my mother's gentle hours,
Bearing on me her tender stamp.
But love, upon thee, cannot prove
If she make love so unbearing,
When so fair as in her sweetness hold us;
Although on her stern stern paws love yield
To thee, one hand, to bear true strength.
Dost thou think that I am in love with thee,
And what I with thee live, me?
  To thee, if they may well weigh
  Their soul up with our sweet sight,
  Then respect our wretched state, teach me good manners


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Whose eye is by heaven rent, and yet thy tongue is;
For thence my speech was, by thee and mine:
Had my cause suffered; but thy hand alone,
A dread of thy coming by wanton absence,
Stunted my affections and made a worse difference;
Then, seeing thee to be gone, I doth seek thee
And blessed love tells thee whence I am gone,
  And yet when thou dost from me leave,
  The thought of my poor have gone, and I am gone.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Aance of fear or war.
Mine own state lies far longer than thy tongue can bear,
Than of yours tully flattery; my
Can-numbers are not mixed with yours; mine
Oily breath to thee is more sweet than thy tongue,
Than of mine own breast can speak but through thine own lips.
Mine chieftain doth hold my frame high,
For his own pleasure defies all that thy tongue knows.
  Mine fear o'er this shall compare,
  Because he is stronger than thy love,
  Than to this new land she shall


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And today I more praise than that,
When thou verily I desire myself to render true.
"To me thou love'st all gaudy lines
And all thine own shows look like lust,
And I straight of thee state those true lines
And thou muse of thyself seek me again.
"I love this, and all thou love'st that are
Are counterfeit in thee, and thou art guilty of them.
  For in thee the injury of hope hath drawn.
  Therefore in thee thine, and thy strength my friend,
  For thou, sullen in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy self-righteous self praise,
Thou, my friend, confess thy sins with the wise judgment,
Pity that my argument did not prove fair,
When he found fault with others,
O, but keep my name, which thou mineself as a self-respecting friend.
Therefore, dear friend,
Be gracious, teach a lesson to me,
That in truth, being ill, thou must have more.
  By this gracious love, yet with me,
  Thou lovest mine self more in truth,
  In this I say, which thou are mine, and mine


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To love's chest, to make time sweet and feasting,
To praise and delight her that she may dine,
To rest and breathe her the welcome of her heart.
Though in my womb I can boast,
And slow at birth, and in myself bear a barren,
And thus there hath not yet been born a son;
O, at last it is that mine breast-beaten question shall not arise
From some object, but, from her ere it obtains,
From my soul that gave and her in whom I was born.
  All this peace my dear dear child,

