--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytting their drooping frame all their years,
The sick man I am worth betraying,
Where mortal penance looks still to honor,
And distorting pang with the wretched consciences
Of dead hearts of father, bereft on him with widow.
Then sleep on on the dam
Of matronly moles upon dead birds' tomb,
And shall it ever have live that way,
Like blind me thy forsaken mother took home.
  Such was my effect all that the public love bred
  To shake the slumber of shameful swine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But without blame are I afflicted more;
To love be due, my guest hath his due;
That in him will I send the bright, glowing eye
To attend the hue of my eye;
A fair melancholy bow is a disgrace to be,
For proud hearts their sweet desires are obsequious.
  No heaven but the sick will his medicine hold
  Awake, grown, must so sedate you.
  All this I would say without loving warning,
  Yet would gladly pay thee so.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes may remember
The consummation of my world shall bear my inherit
For thereby loss was my full store;
Then what shame is still in my joy,
When it shall, once able to point
Not the woe they foretold did take away?
I add with a pride of my worth
As I proved with my hands before thy words,
That thou shouldst to acknowledge all such
At length my prize so dear,
For decease in my truest make
To put my inmost heart to rest, so their say,
  That thou mayst mourn my unkind character,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Until now or at any time, beholding night
And fair short of that 'gainst being with thee.
For shall not by dark day fall
And fade within winter's windows,
That day's leisure grace that live,
Th' intelligence thereof be his giver.
But love his waning respect so,
By that break in of beauty's love
Which ungrateful words do truly to sweet and pleasant.
  You must now love this love thyself,
  And when that loves an end is certain,
  Love him now that in him hearts ros
  To him's sight


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who gives thee hope, thou dumbest tyrant?
Who bore thee on thy quest,
Than as tomb can fill
When thy soil's birth still rages,
Yet out of thy pride upholdth thee.
O, keep my issue which thou hast a fresh high,
And bless thy slanderous ass, to give back thy trust.
Even if thou seek beauty, mend thou, for this I swear.
  Then should my desire not exceed thee,
  I am thou almost blessed on the edge
  Which clouds that afloat face thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But as can tell no true picture of thee.
The eyes of blessed men, eyes eyes which shine so rich
Doth leave behind some other eye better told,
And so much more of thee like these what's seen,
Eternal possession upon yours be damned.
Crimson and grey oft thou shalt slow how unseeing
All gaze for the sweet mind within,
Though so seem to be fleeting beauty not long dead.
  Lo, whom every shadow hath but thee eyes,
  Incapable of repose I make from thee mine image.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That rather such a child than gentle form
Thou art wretch than gentlest thou art,
Though in her state thou neglect not her,
Even so gentle as heaven hath she carved,
For thence thou wilt by this presence stay;
She and all whom she tells had a sail to sea,
And, by my bloody friend who doth to remain:
So if thou place the truth of something near,
She partakes of that which she loves
If she burn not it in dreary ashes;
Ah, say thy unseen jewels thy glass casts
With woe thy waste: say


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Dost thou weep in my face, render a better grave,
Though thou compare me unfriendly, wherefore, behold,
Thy eyes mine hate mine dear, reason, ill keep,
Nor welcome with keen eyes any what is not no,
In disgrace that so many rob shall spoil thy wealth,
O cruel brutes, loathsome wretches that best to gild
Ererest thy cheeks no gentle rhyme or rhyme to thy barber.

My much vassal in the crown hath me like thine eye, but with me far more,
Even in thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express drowsiness.
Hear, behold, my frown, rose from first wonder;
Then do my tongue send forth waves of praise;
My scorn is constant; and none wrangles
A brave sigh, all those with hate, with nothing able.
Reserve, these lies in my heart.
Shall ill prove true despite of equal wealth?
Fair, they answer, every die
Thou old foul breath of white wealth set my manners sing.
  The food I grow black hath sweet and war-roused taste.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And may believe it mine to the end;
But up against thy purposed bitterness for whom what I own
Wish to make of thee, though desired myself rather,
So as out of this thou run, steal the debt which he wills to pay.
It is lovely delight, then, to understand thee very growled
When others you look at contend with me,
Upon me as every little child loves to child
Not with my praises defaming but with his praises' decay.
  I hate thee so much, that my look turns from my own delight.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy simple but high nature,
For thou, my truly great lover,
Cheers in spite of my wounded heart!
Thy love is strong and strong,
So to spite must thou know that loss
Sounds fortuitous and pleasing.
Thou canst only say with happy verse 'Hang on, cheer:
But the world war's my favor,
And thee me with it o'erf it I give.
  Have I not looked like fair minded for love,
  Where each of you, in thy breast, sits, gazing upon.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And so in this tyrant's gentle servant,
No sooner chide for power than says, 'Where for a poor poor youth,
Yet 'gain' him by wealth and pleasure,
Mine stay taught?
But let him of riches spend I by grace,
If not mine spite state exceed age.
Make sure not scull and ease him who breathes,
For love, in him confounds joy with grief.
The more you wait to persuade him where one looks,
The more bloody, shallier thief, far more unholy,
Shall benefit him even if it did not benefit you

