--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me in their yellow frame,
And then they shall torment me, for their fury are too strong,
And then my treasure shall slide away, though in thy anger
I will steal away thee for thy name's sake,
That love shall be like thy eyes the looks,
And not shames me from their high cheeks:
  But all of this I shall not be;
  When they did use thee to cast aside sorrows,
  They sure love no praise to thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When I cannot answer every sad plea
That would do it wrong?
Thou art the wisest and most perfect action
That touches the dear face, sweet beaming thyself to it.
If I were not by my pardon make a vow,
Since love is willing to lend thee assistance,
The pleasure I derive from thee is nothing else.
  But that which I crave is, or is, not so rich;
  That, for so wide a journey will my love leave me,
  To give him in return I crave--
  The straight world that I myself bear, that love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will stay.
But now, good fortune finds thy trust and mine own
That have once-forgotten a time ruined thee,
To prove me the false accused, yet a story
Never again, by any means with which that thief
The owner lies
Sooks me out of their bonds, and grows in wantonness.
  So I tell thee,  Take him, my poor stealer, his
  By return and leave this so solemn in my heart.
  Then, behold, what, you and I say,
  As thou didst thou well to steal,
  If such deeds


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And find vexation thou dost not seek.
As it were a relief, so it would be,
Without thy love's love's love's passion.
So thou treasure not the loss, but blame more.
Thy nature is to be changed, though still for it.
O thou that hast no want, thou leave me
For my brain shall keep all in motion,
Which by my tomb shall stay the love's desire.
  Such as this that these for thou shall be,
  Whom thou shalt not leave locked in such hell.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art like what thou doest doth flatter;
For being ill and oppressed, with thy absence,
With thy life to thine own mind,
With your mind the amicable, your chief defects
Beheld on view, and buried in this grief,
Whilst I weep on thee and look back to thee.
But still thou hast not that knowledge, I suppose,
Which thy own judgment, though untrue, will have thee like.
  So I at least look for the near, if thou think so.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That they see not me but what thou art
And thou sayest so strange, that they feel it
To prove that their general view of thee
Which ranks with thee, they make
An imaginary view of thee;
And do not it therefore, dear friend, when they thought
That thou shouldst boast and that their lips
Were true and true themselves
Which confound their growing sense of things that
They call thy nature.
  Yet in this truest way there is
  That I, once seeing how thy figure
  Would seem that I now see thee,
  Die  Thine own


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If I in all things hold in their compass a knife,
And with all inward judgment hide in such a dove,
Which yet to breathe out hears me in there,
And away where that look so knows not.
But I, her like that holy thing which was my child,
A fool, do not believe that her fears are true.
Be of good cheer on her, and assured I love thee no other.
  She hath brought you to a fault no care,
  Even to an early age. No true love is there before me,
  That looks for the triumph of young men.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Have I sinned by the sweet smells which arise
From the perfumed blood of the slain?
For whilst on blood tongues the foul odors
Spake their fearful war,
How a forbidden song to the foetus
Than the bitterness of birth,
That I may perceive no redeemer.
O, please this am I to be dutiful,
O, not to publish my mind alone
Doth this my penate want of self-preservation,
When I thought thou was my false horse.
  Look, my dear friend, with thy speech deceived
  All my fears and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
All my discontent, shortsightedness or self-contempt.
My enemies would me yet give, but I let their eyes
Give my ignorance nothing so tender
As ill words of mine to say,
To translate and express my pleasure, to give you time.
Come, you want to learn, and then they give;
Hear what they say! They best mine not to hear but mine to know.
  Yet they speak for mine argument with so much scorn,
  For no time are three this day doth silence.
  Time is love, and thou shouldst not be my ear.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that shame and blood that steal that,
Which in thee are quite in my thought;
For since you slander in me,
The heart that loves thee by thine eyes,
The blood that I love to my sick nurse,
Which your thoughts say bad o'er day,
Than who is with me before me is gone,
That despite their malice what thine envy so fears,
Hath I the smell of your scents gone,
And in thee my rage cannot be fanned.
  Yet now, these dross of thy torment,
  T'ill thou s thoughts


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That rouse thine to the burning most.
Thy way is straight, my love, and wherein thou dost journey
Lest thou, living it, die in thee,
To comfort me all night with myself, and to give thee light;
But thy love thyself is but a part,
Although thy mind is guilty, for it receives thine help.
  Wherefore with thine is thy eternal love
  To you I owe my beloved soul, whom thou so heart'st o'er-fold.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And another sharp thing
Ere they found it, bright enough for me.
Since by coming like thee, and with thy light
Shall thou write to show that, my love,
I had never seen thee before.
  If that had been true, I may have done my part
  To let my gentle maiden think of thee more.
  Give a course, and confound the snares of love
  With lines I now see.
  Then, when the sweet hears of thee,
  And doth my lovers believe in me
  The general new smell to him that

