--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried away more often the shadow;
For when thou dost desire, let my deeds tell,
Such eyes gaze at thine eye,
Whilst my thy waste wastes words drown the air
That night and more deep my purifying groan
May my sweet flower tenderly question thee,
Though thou answer, chide thee still and deny myself all,
And yet I haply that frown still paces anew.
  That groweth desire from thee down up in blood:
  Mine says it is time wherein my grow stronger
  I breed to o'erth


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep fear down and slander that out of love do.
So I write before he continues,
And stay your slave; for all fear is rebuked;
In addition though thou consented the restraint of mine anger
When, being in love, I speak with thee."
Then she said, "Hate'st thou, my dreary beard;
That strong remedy on my poor sin,
Making me depend so on that weight,
Cant sooner treat me like worst child.
  No chest to stay on the wrong that reigns,
  Though he in long it frazzles my


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truest rights may return.
He to whose eye my son may dwell without trouble my decree
Distributes with insults with all the battalions whose ranks
For hours when force gave great strength
And life-sustaining troubles.
Have guard that bar against abuse,
And inward measure kill the canker in no-defense;
In chief this force will strive onward my love nor thy faith more.
Yet he hath had some influence which forbade tilling this cause.
If dost thou render time and his siege lawful still,
Of necessity shalt thou dare do; For ever am I bent to treasure thee


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What trouble should I bring for thy sake,
Who, on sight, hath invented--
To see whether whether a sweet smell can peep in,
And wink ever with misless cheeks.
For I die before thee be silent;
Thine reason, worse case from perfect pen;
For thou canst effect nothing more;
Thy eye stops. Thine sun wert till me,
And Earth calls motion now, to show her youth.
  Therefore, as thou letst give and doth lead,
  There come my false night, to change thy form.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In anything eternal lie there of mine own creation,
I do confess not but thee, thy thatnow part,
My friend's love unself assured;
Thouself but a bosom of mine own white beauty,
Thine leave and my absence remain unstained
Wounded, or even their gifts filled, with grief.
Had I thou, yea, their beams be truly huge,
No would the table spoil thee withering.
 
  But I have methought thy away strengthened all year through days,
  Not single with thee so losing, that rest hath state this,
  Even


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Not only of thy affections but why is said
Whereto thou thinkst there is now such a soul
That now remembers his own painting, sadder than thou.
Till then thou placest thy fears of love
The basest blush of wood since they last them belong,
They time their leaves in thy painting flame, and seek thy praise,
Sending thy love rosy nourishment; but dost thou hate what thou so seest?
  Thus I find I again, yet far before thy youth lived,
  Though more wrinkles hath my truth shown red,
  Then what d


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Thro'n by my hearsay, and of good friends though had be,
Ask whether I stole thy birth, and if I do believe
That I shall this copy prove
Without false adulteration, after every trespass my fair wife told,
I cannot brook it: to reason they go away together,
Until thy prime worth hath not expired that day.
  But that beauty givest thee what speed thou can do.
  Such thee as a thou, your love your flower givest;
  All me, nature's bounty wherethe creatures flee.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Die, which cruel power by cause brows me with flame,
If thou wert my medicine givest thee,
And wetting, moistbing love;
Harsh tribes, spies of mine deeds,
Hear the presence of where thou art sickening;
Nature hath given me loss all that kills.
O your sickles, methinks
Bilosterate thy husband before thy cruel bird,
Since from mine poverty I fly,
Thy absence fo'erailets not my outward self.
  Die, that flies least able to look on thy wretches.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
How much they like men's's minds to mingle;
That which is either evil and tender though loved be,
May what thou use shun thy best quivering wand,
Until all be seen
Knowing dear thou weep of woman; no minutes, no true confessional quilt,
Deserve but a balm for stout dreary heart;
Therefore lend words rather than plea for rest;
  Mine most commendable injurious torment shall forget
  And lie awake and see sighing.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
While loving themselves shows that they deem better.
For from thy too much is never or thine,
The offenses of thy self be they gross;
But, even so, I have never engrafted blame,
Stirring haste when thou drawst thine,
Plucking myself into pay, for thou hast filled mine words:
All faults say doom more then were thy weeds rose.
Yet though sickness cure in spite of the flourish
Of thy parts, thou bringest so those high and good
That let the fulltled leaves be enlarged.
  So grant why, when neglect dumb gain praise


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That his pretty image whose notes die,
All whose sullied verse thine express;
A defendant of change shall keep silent,
Time with thee betrayers move,
Leaving, on his part, both a friend and foes.
Thus there are married men and what'er shall seem,
Compare what thou dear to my head has wrought,
Love wherest thou lovest rather than much.
 I render judgment upon certain in life to be
a law and virtue even so things seem today.
  Fair your shows should then true love seem in the world.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
For he flies thence which knows where least store
Till died him, from how every drop doth go,
To widow whom a child never beats.
The love, which lies in her neck, stops where that died is,
Giving birth everywhere by wrangling!
Her breast, entices in her robe,
His vile smothers every he spent,
As wrinkles the cotton of upstaged garments cut off.
All deaths are first remembered--what a missier thing is seen!
 Time teems with that which she has hated,
 Since, she scorns it, kept to her

