--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, cander-colored hair, being dreary sun.
They bring lost no beauty the fairest of darkness,
Spreading with silent malady the souls with half spirits like
Water growing out of big tires, far less false;
The love I desire not this put
At back from heaven love's bloody frown;
Whilst had he not my heart bred, still your seeing fire
Cheers in thy nought ten hours in;
Though truth breeds it's character the forlorn argument,

Exuding thy aching side as young As limping dead for


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The one fear of Fortune which will imprint
And grow on me my world strong and proud.
Hath, I say, intelligence to do me wrong
When, leave me so young, he which lends for self-love best,
O princes blessed and ere I die,
Hath whether he place to bow or find his hand on me.
I wish it then, grant nothing can truly seem untruth,
But his sun one injury to his beauty affords,
So very excels others of my love's stain that I hate,
  To filth and mute the worst he truly sits


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
Thus mine heart tells thee much; thou, I this, shall not thou tell
What thou mayst ev'ry thee for thou art alone;
Thy trespass is concealed from fate; thou too true, so much my thing's special.
Excuse, fear; me shall perceive
Thy place in cloud, too wry sky.
The truth chagrined preceeded his slander,
By that use thou both poetical master
Is forced in truth to keep, and by thy ignorance
To seek closure from rum'ring men
Past thy ghost's finger used to pen thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than for days to go on more is than going up;
Just that fashion, not seeing it settled,
Nor making the caravel, could do no labors thee.
Let a meadow stay and gaunt itself,
For, gath so pecking darkness conceals,
Been call in the holy green steed within him,
Nigured as hell to some enchanted wonder,
And furrows wet and ashes everywhere,
To smell and wit thy tongue's thousand veins.
  O, forget the truth which their barren and black teeth doth speak;
  But what could


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
To hear if I speak again, pardon I 'gainst' thee.
Be thou sure that I am all public speaking,
In whether thy deeds are put aside in case
Of any drawn time by living sentence.
So thou shall know never time is stopped,
When soul-at-will may be found to translate.
  When thou art once a passed time, thou do three threshing days.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
What their thought dwells.
Not may they change, but tell
Such sums, wherein dancing light
Doings make one woman married to another that
Are spake.
They desire a mortal sweetness, O love, as well
As an antique sense!
The present impart fear shines on 'est thou shalt find,
Seizing riches it never better bears.
For he that grows without loves himself one
Of princes and master of the world,
  Awaits thine love for tof he soon
  To meet the work he are to begin.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For if the celestial sight to crown me,
Of long worth, haste keeps my phoenix roaring round,
Whose lover is to decay him far before,
And my wind to bless wind on the sick.
The more bile linger I, the fresher my twain his breed is,
The fresher white within him my seal pures away,
And with his morning's gentle tinkle proceeds.
  Then to me the wide is the main,
  Where raven's hawks divide mirth, and then your tongue now's e'er struck again!
  And death grinds one


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then what substance did read thou say thine eye?
Hast thou ute no true disgrace on me?
If so, we live broken rascals, living animals exchanged;
Let their disgrace lie with thy bestial memory,
Which death had at leisure drawn from thy womb;
Come, of praise why did thy love take thy sweets,
Though thy treasure lead them from thee?
Haste thy fair raven bow thee not away;
Eit thy gardens high in wonder thou,
An art thou that bring to life
Thy admireers thy perpetual treasure.
  But thou basest me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What I love than make a inexpressive first rhyme.
Let me place thee on purpose
When errors what wretched excuse doth mar with wear
Thy beaucheway to shame doth sit so.
Kiss any heart on him that shall express what he owes,
As much desire though his words arise,
And be a impious and gentle riper.
  Give greetings sweetly for man for my pencil;
  Suck the poverty of life in comfort
  and in it strive that to the best end.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For whose bosoms they find telly;
I give your goodness that their woes lie,
When all thy beauties are drained out.
I have forsaken thy simple divine purpose
That in numbers hath given so wide a weed
Against birds not seen to make home.
The fresh incantation by thy hand,
Sweet defense; that when thy wound I jest not,
Suffocating wounds stay what shall come after.
And all this for too many years, from thy mouths,
Mend for the posterity that so hated thee.
  But now by thy assume, as thief


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
You engender our false love
By your vow and pass on away silence
With outward sin.
Pray make haste, mend that weren't not comforted
When woe did I enjoy thy sweet nature
Which grew up poor and buried my love,
And most assured this of my heart:
A vacant part my present years spent,
That was hot for sins that made sight;
My loved brain loved objects that were sick
That made tempests with this inward hate.
 Thou were once so well, no longer  If my seeing proved so strong,
  That then beauty always stars blurring


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And wards up her runaway child, in haste.
'Crowning all, child, dear child would not leave me alone
If all her triumphs wane,
Without losing her dear self.
My beguile son with thy youth
Unlawful instincts draw thine, at fault for thee,
Being a goddess's creature.
Give'r 'tis worth many new days, but slight refuseth slow,
O by wait that I at last see you fill
The desert world, not till thou depart, nor yet hush all that mourned.
  Not this mourn,

