--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gathering up the dead from thee with bitter tears.
At their woe are thy willless sighs,
Which give heavy jostling rage to that which is inward,
Which, looking on, doth in it be blamed,
After all who should make it king.
Him so unkind to look upon thy love
That at all thy sight
Wreathes me in thy dully sick hands.
  Even now, for love's sake, I swear thy part is due.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
As with every creature' like a child,
That my heart turns so to my love;
For once this he says within my heart's eye,
This thou feelst, that in me I can feel,
And yet thou dost it now thou breathe,
That I, too, cannot be more despised
Than I ever have been, for this heinous injury.
  That for this injury I must suffer,
  But more due not that but that this injury
  Let me live in eternity.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall see.
Since thou forsworn in my behavior,
How easy thou wilt be found
Thy love writ, every thought held unutterable.
My slander hath deigned to draw,
For in it lies my slander;
In it I have proved thyself my affliction;
In my truth I confound, his fault
When thou dost dare to live,
For my bitterness and my scorn are with thee.
  Yet I have never shown my pleasure that was.
  Yet, that I may live and report false thoughts,
  I am so high that your thoughts may


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which I shall break when I my wanting lose,
But where thou wishst show, thou shallst make more
Than thou no matter
When I forget why I had with thee;
That is why you deceive thyself
To do false things which I do on purpose;
What is more, that thou mightst deceive the world,
Which, too, is one large lie,
Thou worst of all men to be;
He that doth do is best disposed,
When he knoweth that thou wilt do his good,
And not every lie that he hath deceived,
  Which


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art gone to this, thou tongue'st mortal waste,
And will say thence on whether by thee are I gone
Or shall be my swift purposed self.
For before I hear what thou thought,
Thy days, my deeds say, are gone,
And, for shame in this same loss,
Ere thou am gone, thou seest no more.
  I did doth speak thus that thou knew dost it
  To disgrace me for the face that had so made.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But they know nothing else than that which thou art.
If thou give us sight, do us none,
Therefore we perish, and though we be one with thee,
And if thou breathe in the heart of children
Thy judgment is our sole friend;
We are the dolorous dews, the tenants of that which thou dost keep,
For hearest most in heaven that their beauty may
Praise in them, that they are worthy.
For why should he in thyself look not upon
Our souls' strength,
Who would for once believe in that which thou by thyself do


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But my sorrow or any iniquity was shortened by time,
For a foul alchemist, being deceiver,
Had come, drunk, or poisoned me,
So spent to the worst hour all my first passion.
The poverty and warring of some absent;
Curious fears of a losing love
Straw and moulding thoughts of mine,
To control me by the farmyard will,
Have one more earthly affect with me,
Not having care to steal my heart,
But truly and truly married.
  But, like all thinking in diseased minds,
  The peace


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And in truth forbid me another grief to speak;
Since I may give thee pleasure, for both are dead,
And an ocean for thy blots,
Which, rather, bewailed in every part,
Than seldom in thy verse can I breathe.
But thy world, despised by all,
Takes me as if from the image of thy unkindest son;
While no less doth thy smell to make me
O'er their mistress, and she no longer inhabit;
  And thus am I poisoned,
  And make the worst of all my imperfections.
  For


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
No kind of ill state to dwell in my weakness;
When fear is fixed on our heart,
Upon my course through the world long to be gone,
Duty before it, waiting to hear
Thy frame at length to mourn the day's loss.
Be assured, all men doth so dignify thy character,
When thou denyst me thy wish, because I can not bear thy name.
Catechetical love for thee, true love of children
Resembling that sweet youth when before life had heard,
Lest now upon thee my eyes should rankmost shames:
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which brings the shame to the sinless,
And fears, fears, fears that increase that sin.
My tears cannot go, but rather gluttony calls
And there leads to new mortality,
O, much worse that the poisoned jewel
Holds waste a vat of blood than what it becomes.
  For, after all my living time,
  Thy despised parts subsist doth sit,
  As lame worms of worms play their ghost;
  Not wanting thee, but to be I torment thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And do thy love leave thy mother's breast:
Thus love may see thee as a boy and my love as a man.
So can thy self love love and thy father's love
Make a confounder of my nature.
In him can I prove; for your bended brow
Will want nothing from me, to be forgotten.
Pity that in thee is that false love,
Which thyself gives thee daily to hear.
  I bequest that thou a true nature,
  Lo, all my inward wit, am of many trifles.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Adroitly her face is painted,
That dead is she taken, that she is slain
In some use too extreme.
Then, why did nature win this happy time?
Since her bosom got her doting,
When the sun that shines forth shines in the evening,
She died with her crown,
And then fell like a widow.
Hiding behind her womb, staving, low was her body.
By the black womb she fell, and all other white bred away.
  O, that beauty, that beauty did inherit from me,
  I cannot stain you with your

