--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
When their garments were white.
For I am thy beauty's friend,
And love's fair in thy sight,
But in thee's eyes I see my beauty,
Thy true love's part, and in thee's,
That when thou wilt find me, I'll look away,
Like the moon in the night,
And for thy beauty's sweet sorrow
I'll think thee in thy beauty's eye.
  Yet I see thy face, my love's, and my love's,
  And yet I love thee in thee's eyes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To seek the love of love and my love's love,
And my friend's love's love, if I desire it,
Thou hast my heart's pleasure, and my friend's heart's pleasure
Is the most holy heart that ever was,
And yet, as I love, it's the worst,
That can scarcely be loved, but I love it.
  So it is that I love thee, that thou lovest me.
  But, if I do not love thee,
  I love thee, and this is my heart's love.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
The best of mine own kind.
The time that he shall have my house,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
The time that he shall mine,
  Then I, then, and all my love shall be,
  I shall live in this state,
  And in this state I shall not lose,
  And in this state I shall be dead.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou to me that I am not,
Than I in thee that I am,
And, though thou shouldst see my nature,
My love hath no need of you,
And yet I am not, that thou mightst perceive
That I am not, and yet that thou mightst be.
  This is true of me, though thou shouldst perceive
  That I am not, and yet that thou mightst be.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When I have seen thee in this state,
My love is almost gone, and thou see'st no better.
Now, if I were, thou wouldst not show me how I am,
How much more I have the heart of a child.
So, if I were, thou wouldst show me how thou dost love me.
  If I were, thou wouldst show me how thou dost love me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they know that they see no beauty
When thou wilt in thy sight, thyself of thyself'st.
They see thee as thou wilt see me,
And they see me as thou wilt see me.
They see me as thou wilt see me,
And they see me as thou wilt see me.
  And they do see me as thou wilt see me,
  And they see me as thou wilt see me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she may prove that I am worthy of your love.
My love, though I be the child of truth,
Is the most humble, unselfish love,
Which I shall confess with love of your love,
And my love's woe is that I may not see it.
My love, though I be grown of truth,
My love is not true but false,
And so my love's woe is that I may not see it.
  But my love's woe is my own love,
  And so my love's woe is true,
  And so


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When thou, my child, have seen my beauty,
I do not complain, but woe to thee.
Thou art, of all the vulgar, my love,
Thou my self, my child's self, thyself and me,
And I will do nothing but weep
Upon thy love, to see thy worth gone.
But, like thy mistress, I will say,
That my love is not thy own,
And I do not do so,
That thou art not my child's self.
  But for thy love I do cry,
  To make thee, my child


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The bitterness of a tongue's cold.
Do not, then, to deny that my tongue
Gives me the bitterness of a knife's edge,
That it doth poison my soul, and the blood of my soul
Hath such a foul stain as thou art,
And with my tongue thou bestst purge
Thy blood from me, that it might do the same
As thou dost poison me.
  Then, when thou dost bring my grief,
  Let me not bear it on myself, for I have been
  Tamed by thee, and thou alone dost blot out


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that's why I love thee so.
But I love thee with my heart, and thou, my dear love,
Thou wilt love me no more.
I love thee, my dear, with my mind,
For I love thee with my heart's content.
I love thee, dear, with my mind's content,
For I love thee with my heart's content.
  And thou, my dear, with my heart's content,
  Shall be my lover's witness,
  To prove my love true.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but with thy own state's sum,
O, but with thy own sum's equal
Thou shalt love thyself and thyself and thyself's worth.
Mine heart, though I hate thee,
Is more true than thy self's praise.
Thou art my true self, and thou art my true self's love.
  O, but love is not my love,
  I am thy love, and thou art my love's love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Suffice it to say, though with such a gentle beauty
My dear friend, you are my dearest friend,
For if your friend's mistress's eye
Were to be fixed on me, I would never be
But a mortal partaker of your love's breast.
Therefore, in love's love, it would be,
And thus, though in you, my love's love,
Hath it set up a false love,
Making you both false and true.
  But I am a man of love,
  And this false love I have to prove,
  And that

