--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gathering up the dead from their graves,
Showing the blood of their deceased,
Which, on their black cheeks, show the face of their dead,
The proud faces of their dead,
The proud cheeks of their dead,
And in their love and fear of thee,
Are so gentle as the roses of the dead.
  But love's presence is so strong,
  That when it touches me, it is strong enough to take,
  And I am weak enough to bear it.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That I might lie in my sorrow,
That my heart may be the sweetest, the most gentle,
That my heart may weep in my grief;
That I might be in love, and my heart might be the sweetest,
That I might love you, and you might be my love,
And that I might say, 'My heart is so dear,
That I love you so much,
That I love you so much that you love me so,
  That I love you so much that you love me so,
  That I love you so much that you love me so,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live
As I do, my heir, for my love,
And my heir to thee, and thy dear child.
I have the right to swear, and to use it,
For I have the right to say what I say,
And I do it in a word that is not my own.
So, if thou wilt do so, I'll do it for thee.
  And, if thou wilt not, I'll do it for thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For my love hath not yet given thee that love.
O, it is not so, then,
That I should look upon thee with your eyes,
And say, "If thou art a sweet child,
My love is thy love, my love's sweetest love,
And thou art my love's friend."
O, then, thou art my love's sweetest love,
And I will love thee, and I will not wail
Without a love's loss.
  But, since thou art my love's friend,
  Thou shalt be my death, my love's tomb.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou, being so weak, still canst not doth me doth call,
For I am so weak, that thou, being so weak, still canst not doth call,
For I am so weak, that thou, being so weak, still canst doth call.
  But thou, being so weak, still canst doth call,
  And I, being so weak, still canst doth call.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And to their grief they think it to be,
But thou knowst that, in thy sight,
Thou beholdst the truth, but thou knowst not what thou see.
Thou seeest, but thou dost not see,
For thou dost not perceive what thou see.
  And thou dost not see what thou see,
  For thou dost not see what thou see,
  For thou dost not perceive what thou see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some fair-haired doting old woman,
And that she might think me to be the fairest,
That in her love's love's own power
She would steal my love's pride,
And still in her love's love's love's love's love
She would steal my love's pride,
And still in her love's love's love's love's love
She would steal my love's pride,
And still in her love's love's love's love
She would steal my love's pride,
And still in her love's love's love's love
She would steal my love


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And yet, though I swear my love,
I have not yet to say that I love thee.
O, my love, I have not yet to say that I love thee.
O, my love, I have not yet to say that I love thee.
  For thou art my love, and I am thy love.
  But, if thou, my love, shouldst say that I love thee,
  I am not to blame for my love's absence.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My deepest fears, and my dear heart's fears.
But when I see that thy heart hath
The first hope of praise,
Thou wilt be true, and not so much as I,
When thou art the worst of my fears,
And that, if I could, thou wouldst be true
And I would not be so proud of thee.
  Then, sweet friend, if thou wilt be true,
  I can do nothing but make thee happy.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I do not love thee with my eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
And, seeing that thou art not in me,
I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
  And, seeing that thou art not in me,
  I do not love thee with my eyes,
  For they in thee a thousand errors note;
  For, seeing that thou art not in me,
  I do not love thee with mine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own pride and thy own self-love,
And in this thou dost my love;
Thy love is my love, and thy self-love is thy self-love.
Thyself alone, thyself alone,
Thyself alone, thyself alone,
Is my love, and thyself alone,
Is thyself alone, thyself alone,
And I love thee, and thou alone,
  And I love thee, and thou alone,
  And I love thee, and thou alone,
  And I love thee, and thou alone,
  And I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And yet, still, when she is gone,
Her husband's love is still strong,
And her husband's death is still swift.
When he is gone, his love is gone,
And his body is gone, and his spirit is gone,
And his spirit is gone, and his body is gone,
And his spirit is gone, and his spirit is gone,
  And his spirit is gone, and his spirit is gone,
  And his spirit is gone, and his spirit is gone,
  And his spirit is gone, and his spirit is gone,
  And his spirit

