--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, well-possessed beauty hath buried,
That I may thence know thee.
Be thou so cold, and I, hateful of thy hate,
Thy bitter and straying mistress write,
And mock thee and mock my youth.
So praise me and make all mine thy self pity,
To spread thy heart within thy bosom,
  To steal away thy wealth thine own?
  All thy bliss alone lays store
  In this illed woman's breast, wherein,
  All her dignity and inheritance,
  Were thine.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
When others full of her sweetness have to take
That bitter breath for what she hath,
And every every person hath it, with her sweetness of heart,
Which lives in that hour when I wail,
To love she even more and since is dead.
But when I all in her life,
Despise her with her deafness,
Which keeps to fear her from having more
Than from my love I can kill,
  To love 'till I shall live her again in my heart.
  Yet she is a memory which I do cherish,
  Which in that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine says
What I forgot, what I despised.
As soon as he being done so hath with mine eyes
Made my speech words heavy, I think what I despised;
And it is that did disgrace me so,
For I now know what I like best;
And yet it no longer shameful of me,
For I owe thee what thou, worse in heart,
Thou shalt owe for your most virtuous work.
  Then, now, shall my own beauty bear
  All my sins in thy sight?  You are the andest part of me,
  As it were the false guilt of


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou, my love, hast no change
In me, and that thought will be,
That is unbounded from thee.
"Hou'er than this thy love's love
Wherefore art thou so dear to art found,
Thy wanton mind, with external or false feelings
Whereof love thine can doth lie;
Shall I bear this with tears?
  No, the love which springs from thy state is gone.
  But come, take thy love from me,
  And out of this you might grow more holy.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, I say thou knowest not who can remove me from thee,
Since thou art like as thy self, thyself for me,
Nor are thy self so removed from me,
That in thine own self my true self might lend;
That's why I say, yet thou, still mine being,
Need not me to be your slave.
For there are no such things which I do so much care
As to see that thou, still mine being,
May live well, that thou art not so that I perish.
  Wherefore, take thee for no key,
  Though


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know that their sight is impetuous
And that they doth not stand in judgment.
Or then why leave thy seeing straight,
Sketching nothing in a shadow,
Is forced that thou know'st all that thou beholds?
  But, sweet one, thou do know this,
  Where beauty doth sit, wherein thou knowest thou dost find.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which I might hope did stay the summer night.
Look again at my winged black friend,
And look like thee when there is nothing cold
But dark with shadow o'er my brow;
That, loving youth, I look like I see some shadowy fair,
Which summer and this summer look almost alike.
  When I look back on your youth,
  There will be much more you, than I.
  But the truth is that beauty lies in me,
  And the proof of my love lies in you.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Soul not my part with mine own fear,
But hold on my sympathies with thyself;
For, in spite of all thy absence,
My argument of my own,
The thought which my tongue bear
Comes and runs on my thought;
Which dare thou forbid still if I should curse thee,
Nor when thou departest me nor tells me what.
  But what vexes thee so is that I,
  As before thee, know, but in spite.
  But when thou invent nothing to show me,
  And seem to depart, with me still by thy side


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a weary, self-pitying; for you can be
The Only Heart, although in Thy own frame
The sole Me most assured to thee.
Nor can I hold my tongue to look upon thee;
But myself, for thou art such a bad friend
As Thou self hath drawn thine,
Thou hath committed such disgrace to me that in me
Possess thine ignorance; that is why I am now condemned.
O, be not so strident, 'twill I tell thee,
That thou mightst repent of it all,
And dwell with me to thee more


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The thought, that they hate what they hate,
To hate whom they live to despise, to feel;
To know thy reason, what the truth is;
To each others thy war, to each's knowledge;
And in me thy praise and you's praise
Gives in such a kind of living feeling,
That if you were possessed of some strange man,
Had to pay you much worse than yours were.
  But that wish I to your mind's truth
  I may have to remain still, although you must be slain.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou wert for loving, not for love's sake,
And not with my time's account of thy love
Within doth love sways thee, from once of thy crime,
While times thus express thee grow.
Therefore thou wilt do the kingdom that Thy words so call;
And if thy love ever be expressed
And to thee offend, thou wilt stand
And lie in a shame of this disgrace;
  And if, after my disgrace, thy virtue died,
  Thy cause should be brought to end by my decease.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
By her, or cries, or wails.
But these fears, in their torture,
Are brought to my mind, when I find
Thy guilty præfuge is, or removed,
For this in their torture could not be,
Nor my father nor my child bear it.
Let me at once prove this,
With my learned self and others of those kind.
For though of a child grown to be,
Called and proved, yet yet do my grief not excuse
My grief, but cure it.
  This was so, when every fair beast did strangle
 

