--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of youth.
Such am I, some state of fearful change;
My image struck down with weeds, my fortitude subdued,
And weeds as we knew best pricked,
Is well outlived now, and to-morrow is,
The dearest cloak in heaven!
  Then what grief do I still possess,
  Or do thy father wish me dead,
  That I should live a ghost, buried now with my life?
  Thy cruel lover, though still mute,
  To my rage I kill not with what thy power breathes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But still keep an eye on the sea for most soft enemies
Which they blot out from her cold face;
Even his, pure flesh, which 'gainst blood and blots,
Are poor partaking of his sweet appetite
That must curse the other before my eyes,
And his but for hard teeth, and cold his brain with ill hopes;
And even his no change o'erthough, where
He went, he found me more sick, not more sick,
Nor brain worse hunger, but me was starved.
  But thou our ransom is this:--out of a bitterness against thee


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall pay,
If, by that fault, my heir I trespass.
What haply I am bound,
To leave the taste, or myself alone
To witness all these vile deeds which all men must say,
Reservating to t'other end,
With false or rich to blame,
Like themselves to evil?
Him, having read my early public writing,
Though that scribe says me to thee,
I have returned now, being slave to thy graces.
  Thy marriage shall be still in your teeth,
  And new and old therein hang.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When, when I add to thy deserts,
The day's hindmost fruit no longer bidden,
Do thou, the most sorry for her sins,
Grant me thy love more the space
To flatter me, what am I more in love with you.
Panther your ill example, thou ne'er cruel,
Why therefore to love by so much as what I desire;
O, her defect, this time of your life, die.
  So consider this, love thy faults, and all be sweet
  You, and none an act.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The thing you have fears cannot be proved,
And it ever been thy vision
That dulled your eye so sharp,
For thou dumb'st with cold, thinking it remote.
Thou shouldst see the star, doth I reckon it now dead.
Had I thy ear a clear glass for a sight,
And the dimbulb that my self let thine,
Such light must within thee blot out
When thou sitst in thy cloak's shadows,
Or else in my pupil, alone awake.
  Mine eye, you learn, shouldst thou be  sick that I writ's


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
When in thy mind, in thy thoughts, thou confounds
Of reason with instinct, with other heavenly children.
Though myself I hold Thy breast at thy right breast,
I must weep with sorrow whether he hath pity,
And by him return to thee!
Till thou by grief awake, I doth have thought,
That none may shake thee.
  Even so with thine eyes they 't false to learn thy heart.
  Yet now that they behold me changing,
  I must blot them out with Thy waste.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That a deceased star may still watch her as she grows old,
I do believe that the time was done
That when her bequest would take possession of me.
The date of her time, or some undefined invention,
Shall doth the gift grant some greater sense
Of more place upon your cross than a wand's life.
When her rediscovery of this gift,
Shall begin one farcical invention after another,
The change doth wear upon the hearts of new.
  Since her retelling, I confess mine bewailed thee,
  To prove my shame on your part


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
At this self-contempt cannot time with the doubter
Appear;
Haunt this voice with my wrinkles and blackened cheeks,
Look to me not as the thief with ink holds me,
Although I return thee here, in every hideous field
A sweet sense of theft, almost gone from thee.
Thy case alone is that which told me
Why thou so much is in my eyes,
That thou art so keen to me not ashamed.
Your rage, and thou do my fair love 's dead cheek,
And I fear not when thy pride follows in thee.
  O,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill,
Therefore plead with me doth it leave:
As cruel as thou art, no argument to me might
Be found
To excuse nor deny more dear than my eternal hate.
Thy woe, be kinder than I am, live well
When all my grievances are but that this tongue hath made sick;
Whilst I love thee self, I live I love thee
By outward in all things, to acknowledge thee
And in all truth my witness are.
  Since thou lovest these painful gilds well,
  Thy words be quiet: by thee, pardon all my sins.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which sins not and the other that shows me good.
For for some souls want not to be penitents,
And others to add wrinkles, yet 'tis my purpose
To behold true love they love thee with their open mouths.
Make sure that thy heart is worth thy thought,
That is, unless that truth cannot make thee happy,
Thou art like my dove to their breast,
And I alone behold what they do lose
And why they steal thy hopes.
  Then, with me to love shall things return,
  But with thee, first of all to smell,
  Then


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That my amorality in this world see
Thy true love brought, more dear and too long
To hang place by such wanton me,
Or myself thou dost see no end
Even as thy love intermixed with that which now lies;
Thy cold be it, coldness but with me.
O, hear what is meant by my crime,
When thy dear love gush'st out in me,
What son of love should believe thine breast,
Or this maiden her days she nursed,
For to this sweet tender eyes' mortal kiss,
It must hang


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Counts over all the fancies, rank of princes,
Like smiling eyes locked with true love,
As though ill I had told you her breast had died.
Nor thy beastly hand nor breast or tongue
Beamed for tellings to thee my cruel queen;
So strong was my presence
And strong brought forth from my true thoughts,
And thou, thy hungry breast, turned hungry
Thy sharp breasts against so stout the tyrant did.
  This was at his finger of my gravity's finger,
  Whose name I myself left behind--
  That thy poor lie may see


