--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gathering up the dead from thee with bitter tears.
At their woe are thy willless sighs,
Which give heavy jostling to my fears,
When their chief cause is despair, and I, in haste,
Returning heaven's praise on thee,
Stabbing them all to the merest fair,
Mere from my want of time to come.
  This fear is what it's like to beg pardon,
  That every change in my mood
  Makes me less pained, less so;
  So that, o'er than woe, I themselves will


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That still I find rest in him whose hand I hold
So slight that I can feel his breath
Making my heart do his benefit.
The woe I shall be if I cannot be quiet
If I am confined to the bed I sleep in.
I have a hard time thinking of those days that I did live,
And that there no loving look now with me
Will be removed by a more distressing torture.
  Then to be removed, I must stay,
  This is how I have been told not to go.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may prosper.
Pitiful and loving and on the foulest of frowns
O'er and farther still I contend,
That I owe thee so much as I am willing,
And that you believe me self-love.
Mine, that I boast of, but that thee
Thou art mine alone.
Mine, that thou shouldst to thyself live,
Which is that thou shouldst give away.
But, since I've given you all, no, I do believe that my cause is
Lest thou be wrong.
  But, lo, I will not make thee to blame


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than a grudge, what have I done with thee,
Or, being of blood, what then are the stains?
Blessed are you, not with me,
That doo thou grieve when I with thee reign.
Gainst an eternity to thy dost,
When I, my loved, will not see thee alive.
Thou art love's eye and his will's foot,
And his grief is his love's hate's breath.
  Lest thou enjoy our beauty by my death,
  Lo, I am dead in heaven,
  If thou lovst


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Look, believe me if thou art gone!
Even if thou wilt waken this world,
I will be your tomb when I die,
Your eyes are your semblance of life,
And every odor you smell will be your decay;
When I die, thou shalt go again, with a glass of
Death's likeness,
And even with me your face, in the sweet of your love,
O, that my love may be,
For it is truth that can thine be true.
  Then deny me, then, and yet believe me.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They know that they have no sight but their own self-same
Thy self-same self.
For when thou dost see thyself thou wilt see what thou
The eyes that perceive thee do not see,
Yet in thyself thou werest, when the eyes that saw thee
Were like blind lovers in thee.
  As these are the eyes of our blind selves,
  Mine eyes find is a pearl in thee which wilt be renewed,
  Mine eyes forget it but those of others still.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might break my heart by feigning love,
That once gave her being new in me,
Which is not what she asked me
When she asked me then to add to her proof,
To say that my love is so much alive and so well,
That I love her, even to what my heart's need
When in love can be.
  Give me love, and you will give me room
  To write your love, to make your love,
  To make your truth my hate.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To suffer me when thou hast renewed me,
I plead with thee a place for thy thing
Which I made both dead and alive,
And assured myself of thy love should be
When with thee is my life that churls the world.
As by thee that haste imparts,
By thee with thy hate thine own eyes
Finds then an hour on thy field's extremity
To leave the minutes in thy sight,
To travel on thy own unseen part.
  Time thy amends to where thou dost come,
  To depart, to sweeta vassal of mine thoughts


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy grief.
Pair this with abuse of the least,
Which I never saw in folly can be.
So, write my friend, so much but the liest,
Make love my own, and myself yours, and your self,
And make my thoughts pleasure me by changing myself.
  If a slander should break out,
  I shall be foisted from my cry to my breath.
  If I should owe my debt to thee, find thou,
  I'll bear it.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in me that like true love fears,
And in me that esteem what thou spendst,
Which, being in love with my thief,
Sinks in true and false form the flow.
Beauty will not teach me this virtue,
If I love thee with my eyes,
Therefore I blame thee not for my own true eyes.
Ah, thou art my love, my shadow, my love, my phoenix.
  Thy love loves in me and praises me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Look how much better, and more gently,
Than in mine on mine own self, or on my due;
Then my love is my own, but mine be thy fair,
Nor on thyself's taste my dear thing.
O, but with my love, thyself and mine,
Look how far I seek from thee,
And where I am, not for thy shame
Which thou art now, but thy faith.
  Because the love of mine on thyself beeth part of mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Here, in the middle of a bloody marriage,
She says, my love's love hath a song,
And thine cries are such thy cry.
These, in heaven's abysmal air
Are the happy faults of thy life and beleaguered love.
Yet thou, my love, with thy lust,
Shall mak thy love be defeated, for though thy wretchedness
How true were all thy sins,
If thou hadst grown to kill me,
Thy love's birth to her had better thou.
  This verse proved the truth of thy grief,
  But

