--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And, in their grief, pitying me,
To give thee in my sight a present.
Thine eyes, my sweet, mine sweet,
Thou art sweet to me, but that which I love
Of which I love, thou art my own,
And, by the love of my heart,
I am my own, and I am mine own,
Whom thou loveest not, but which I love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And to tell me how my friend's heart is glad?
I must seek for the other's heart,
And I will find my friend's heart,
And I will make him happy with him.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
I may live. But I am not willing to live,
For I shall be a stranger to thee,
And thou shalt be my debtor.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to leave my father's name,
And to my love's sake,
And to my love's sake to my own.
He will be thy son's son,
And to his love's sake, and to his own,
That he may his own love be thy own.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Nor do I ever, that thy will may be answered.
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not know,
Thy soul knows not, thou wilt not


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And love who looks at the beauty of the world
And is not happy to see it.
Love's love is not so much love as love's love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that she may see my face,
And see my heart, and love me,
When I say that I love you,
And love you so much that I am not worthy to love you
So I am in love with you,
That my love is not so sweet as I love you
That I may not be so sweet as you,
That you may be my love's own and not mine,
That I may not be so sweet as you,
That you may be my love's own and not mine,
That I may not be so sweet as you,
That you may be my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou art my father's son, and I will not be
And my brother's slave, nor my mother's child.
But that is the way of thy words;
And as thou art my love, thou shalt give me back my life,
And to thee shalt I give my life.
For in this world thou art my friend, and I will not take thee
To be my slave, nor my father's child, nor my mother's child.
But I will give thee back my life, and to thee shalt I give my life.
For this world thou art my friend, and I will


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My sorrow.
But when I am yet old,
I will make a new name for thee,
And will not be ashamed of thy name.
And when thou art old,
Thou art ashamed of thy name,
And will not be ashamed of thy name.
Thou art ashamed of thy name,
And will not be ashamed of thy name.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And what I do not love, but they will hate me.
Let no one who loves me love me, but that whom I love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thou art my friend, and my love thy love.
O, but with thy own love I love thee,
And with my own love I love thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And then, when she is about to die,
She says to the rest:
"And when I am dead, my wife,
By thy words, thou art dead, and thou hast
The grace of thy love, and thy love thy husband."

