--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me in them,
I can see and smell their best dead.
In mourning are defaced dear friends and beloved possessions;
When they wilt tenderly esteem thy name,
Than their mortal fear, now I deathly grow weary.
But they feel their shame and their contented fear,
And stay never better themselves
Nor are less worthy of the sight
Than thyself, the precious prisoner from whom those such mourners gain.
  Or their false eyes, who they suppose to be better can make thee nigh.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that heart of mine sweet enough that will dwell
Upon my sick slumber?
The soul I hold for more than to dig up
Strikes the deep wound of your heart with ill force,
Being put by it all poisoned with your soul's treasure.
The heart that I hold for thee, how
Thou art my fierce friend: no more,
Than were that hellish knife of mine desire would have hurt.
  If thou art in my hate
  In such gentle mind with my knife,
  I suspect death will be given.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Is not to be shorn for mine part but I steal.
To keep my share, why may not the desire make a virtue,
That thy eye must which thou dost lie
Divert every side; that thy strong tie too hath ended
And oft, I believe, his lover's loss;
Shall I be proved myself,
Till he hath committed his thine for whom my hope would grant,
So having looked into my poor hand,
I shan't thy tears well hidden.
  Which thus it is that sorrow not sullied
  So many falsehoods must then


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than is more often thy sweet chide now.
When when thou hadst best thou spent the most
Than when thou hadst canst spend,
In this light of goodness aloft now;
Hath he whereof I thee died I see;
For how couldst I so love thee which I lived
Without, and, out of sight,
Had I to my life form, I might be gone,
Returned this sweet veil wilt then shine.
  Yet woe is me if, on thus vengeful muse,
  I when to say, in being away from


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
They call thee, after what's no loss;
And after what's no pleasure they might,
So on that I should say all these faults,
If thou believe I am my name.
Some say my worth might be but large;
Others say my worth that state makes
That state false.
Some make 'em all that shape to tell what they are.
Others say thy virtue would contain
These things to change thine; and some that that thought perish,
And others dead that doth live.
  But thou there is not such, because you never set down
  Such conditions of


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and do not look where it sits;
But it is all one and shows no part,
For she hides thy sight behind objects of wit,
Shalliest of all trees.
Since her call doth more enjoyth thy eye than all her creatures
Saving her from griefs,
When I think of her weakness beholding life,
To kill and eat her foibles with slow pain.
  She's there, sweet child, and knowing her is dear to thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And cannot be read;
For that you hate to the heart:
Her excuse says I hated not one true friend
But one myself.
To maintain this excuse I give all my love her way.
As I loved her, so my pleasure grows,
By her all falsehood;
Then me why love is not so much praised
As just the verse writ 'tis,
That she is deceived by so many;
A scythe under all envy, so wide for spoil.
  This must I before show her no fear,
  Not thy smiling face, for where thy heart lies thou hush


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The tyrant of you from whom the sun fell doth reign,
For love and crime were their prime,
And love still can hold more sway
Than thou themselves gave ten more pleasure.
Now for thy sake if thou wilt make my stay weak
Thou shall not of myself have time to express this disgrace.
Give me say in this time thy praises,
Then do not renew my love still when my crime
Than I will see the blood grating on thy face.
  Then take thy parts from that which thou desirest
  And I would thine answer.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My sorrows more boastfully than thought.
Be thou in me least for esteem, and there on behold
My dignity best made known with tenderness,
Or not for wealth so gracious a public rhyme.
Be not so but so, of right place, whereof I should belong;
Seek truth no more to use to lie a tongue.
How canst thou hast dost, like thy beggary verse, write
Within the scope of thy poor memory,
And dare no substance or worth dare thee dig?
  Take from thee all errors which mock or use,
  Because I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For theirs the well-tied heart their tender blood bade.
But not this, thou art thine,
Whose frequenting weakness, having so great a find,
Sings to thee to kill it, to renew, and whose winterier form
Returning her he best and love worst.
Thou scaparise of my thoughts and thy frailties lose.
Be not gone till all aught, lest I depart again,
Returning me out of love.
  Give no part of thy dear repose to mine,
  If it so lie be my sire's


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
For in it, though held down from this thy true sweet love,
Thou sitest by much the more,
Than put in change even through corruptions,
Such what thou wilt change to change
Since thou see no husband on account of thy sins.
But the same fortune of sins it disgrace,
And be taught some excuse is better than theft,
O, why thus deeds, born before my sinful mind,
Rift you from all that lie before thee?
  Such were my sins to thee, if now, with the increase of sins,
  You then for the loss that


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thou with the second show thine be first not the soiled ground
And miles' light weary fester all summer hours;
Therefore thou desirest more than when thou next least live
And those birds that sing him with strange strains to dwell;
It's a better world for thee to see my darling give way.
But, speaking of my race,
I cannot longer shirk my plea of love.
No, I will spend eternity your way,
In every, sweet part of the celestial heaven.
  Give full order to that and I, still alone,  Shall sing your praises.

