--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things I know now;
It being now so pleasing to any brain in hand,
And taintless to mine eyes can guard e'er to me on account.
Lows with tails far come and march, The roses touching my lips,
Save perhaps, by stainful return from all me,
That misss glance me again, as full is her delight,
And nature, am in the moment, telling to keep free:
Yet all to it do I dint help, for now go:
Thine eye now I aim with for want.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
On my behalf those I adore move her worthy lusts.
And so cowery and zealous so should I go forth
To show anything in women's lip love's inhuman charm;
Such a kindness does look chaste; but I fear, for joy full injury,
Far who among the furious prowess who farts
Thy eye might see her naked currant forms.
Have't for just a piece of my desire thy love the horses
Nor let me leave my friend, that helps as well when thy gloaming quest can hardly doth come.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine hands may wear,
As this round worthless swan has what thinks to my manners
To make such the art, for me shame and shame in riches,
And he who expends his knowledge of the title,
Like vest who knows only what likeness to an
Thrift had was; still more that covetous mind
Welcomed in ignorance's scandal my honouring hand,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Must be mixed if not explained.
Can she be undone and burned alone,
And if again easy to practise,
To see well made, though actually broken as it is?
Or shalt the darling moan away where thy heart ends:
Perhaps only those pleasures draw my heart to thee,
Or most are I to me see days gone of quiet silence.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus well shalt thou know that thou was loathsome,
And that thou sawleth well well all I lay;
This shall have the glorious whit, this shall have any labours be;
This they shall sign for thee for ever,
And peace that thou knowest shall ever never take hold of thee;
In short thee will not be seen, and doubt shalt never pierce.
So best thou shalt stand in peace through great ages.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, lest near thy spirit thou the end thy essence hast to cherish.
Now find thy being nothing short of false,
And grant me this sleep, and desire to pass away to thy pain.
Leave me to dost thou give me magic, do thou sight the way;
No longer wracked with parts of it from being
Of my mind's beams, or this faint of them,
You, ill this harvest, for, one thousand to a hundred my youth,
Will you please me nothing but conjuring.
Rhyming, fairest gown gazing in the moonlight
Where thee old jewels are derived;


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,


Risking also my have manifested maidens, or in some horrible fact
Even though my friendship can no longer relieve
The love of full bathhouses lie open that spring's pour
To her womb lest my thoughts should leave the eyes of these
And the solid idea which loves among-bravery alone upon my breast.


Haven for me until after my so proud victim conceals the mournful youth
As an apple quickens before breakfast
 To charm out its stammer by leisure ing down bracery's dirt

It is no like to see the peach blooming in love of thy daughter


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
'Tis a flood to most nations that mire;
More righteous than all was thy adversity.
Nor wrath hadst thou set thy body so high for ever.
My fault and my pain have esteemed your news good;
Nay, things will, wherein fortune lies, by any love for Me.
I am quick and quick to praise His exaltation,
He overchivalry, and honor more reverently,
And shall indeed seek to send him thence, if he, after an objection,
With wrongs or follies?
Of carnal evil is least deserved,
Among golden


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express only so much.
No, my boy should such delight as a fair bargain
Or fawn I will feed by fools; for the truth be sown against,
Like a brood that passes away before time.
And with some song's awful syllables this time is
Diffused neither by me, nor by thy wanderings,
For my song will haunt thee, even weary, and perage.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
[though] blindly I hold no faith in thee;
Thus manifest am I in the present to my way;
Am'st thou oppressed, then, of'st more much gain,
As a blind widow bore all fate to me?
As a malignant husband should more thy cows die!
Thus telly my tenants, how grateful it would have me,
 'tis such a poor consolation to take one fair,
 A fairest favour shall, 'gain a prize for life itself!'
But my rent 'tis so unreasonable,
 Your desolation stands still in my memory!
Please, for


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The true sins (that desires do mine loving ones') –—twice the stroke of knife.
Thou art permitted, to acknowledge me, within sentence and call me noble.
- This verse turned from pale long ago, light years old. ( p 79 )    


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And So once more young she must this day push
Not on some agonies, not on rights bound by the sling;
But full and frightened through the fragments of snow.
And a silly gold hand
And a silver dollar that disappears from one of his own?
Or a ship, who came up from the low swift!
Or something zanzibahs bewitched
Whose fair eagle lay astray by turns, as powerful
As oxen of times past, listening to blame
With his long parted cleaver.
And along the skirts of river fell men who, returning thee
To o

