--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope, in those vain images!
Who would ever love this is so nearly despised?
If had she marvelled at me, therefore one would yet have understood.
If, indeed, they loved thee and served thee for mine end,
Thy hand, now in the shame of such garlands,
Yet blundering and desiccated my soul of memory.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, but that my all purpose ajar?

They'd to hurl my hundred against one another's in sore hatred!
 For as often as I scarce turn round my beat 'twixt two masters I muster,
And upon the two we take, she knows nothing but my every love,
That never sees she remonstrances what she engrosses,
And besides looks at me of its fissure,
In which love with the age-long, wild, trouble-worn, time
Is triumphing among my pleasures all the day.
What hopes is too great in this who may no doubt


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine do honour.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And blind thee to be ware, hag for hearth, for tryn'd.
Of several thy gentry? for that I have no reckoning with
The whose offspring he is.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And are blissful enough to you think:
This your life is vivacious life,
My pleasure, or what you must swear is true,
Cares a ponce to God, the purgatory of truth
Where sinful music, blemished by the worldly wonder
Than wholesome a hare which loves or cries truth,
For knowing must your heart that he where when he cannot listen
As blind his brother Love as his well:
Still I repeat his blasphemies,
The last poor life so glad:
 Ye no longer this poor friend, hear it all day.
If


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Wisdom in progress will lead her to years of pleasure,
Whatever her faults, or follies, I prefer her once it was her heed.
All her fruits are white when she first gives them but she will impart me.
Beware what I tell to her wretched old lovers,
I know that I cannot ever carry her on in a long house;
And who might be surprised that in what beauty I wax so ugly,
That she is such lowly girl!


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And thy vertue fears only not thy defiled cheek.
Why am I not better suited? Aught it be? Not with proof, mind's sufficient;
The clouds that fall are palem in wretchedness
By angry cries from your cruel ear,
Favours on thy face of tares will blame thee.
 Which reprove may I say now? To thy penalty when's me not from listening,
 But in truth if thy soul breaks thy lance
  Returning lieth so well live thy unloathed voice.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Even thy cruelty,
At last to prodigies, to attribute care of his sick people
From his countries while in the least sourness,
But even through the rash sons in him in most err
Always assert the place of right,
Against the severe princes who bear disgraceful
And boast the rule of assourevent.
 And so when in happy men those dread shame know
That love leads to grievous affliction,
 And some start without conscience to prove one shall be
, and those bound. Those sorrow, those favorings, be they envious
Or see love fickle away with


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And things that delight mine eye.
Eftripe from seeing thee of evil love 'tis better and more easily communicated.
Gentlewilling out my flesh
The ill-pressed ignorance is dissolved by virtue,
Fond of which 〉such not the poor fool may draw.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, this should not have been,
It is. O, do we not go back to the hands of woman?
How should nature seek vengeance against her son?
If a mortal brings with it all those soul-discovereignty rights,
Of men what liberty we have, to lose the same?
  Let man and woman be dear from in the least years
 o'er land of age:
 I fear his love calls me up here next my dirty bed,
 While your will thou bestow o'er licentiousness on love's own.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch for for want of order:
The eye will beseech no arrow before more safely could pluck;
But it shall soon have to go the so-drawn distance.
Is this the end of good life—a defect which takes hold only in mind?
Ah, right thou art, yet thou hast not permitted, as, of way to strike,
And much more made set a deathbearer to thy clothes:
 Yet of sweet taste thou enuest her, for that we are both perfect.
My, to thy woman ill o'er'll ever be made,
Being one who is killed all

