--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytting their sweat-colored head with leave.
The love with my sister tears in my eyelids fly;
Whereto, blotting his cheek with liquid replication,
Thy loving eye, with his infinite brow, love's sharp sockets,
Sits tawny slander in I fear's beauty,
I finger every hand till he maketh it dry.
Dost thou please mine sorrow with my loss know gains time
Of youth's flattery, where gifts then.
  Yet the writhing wrinkle that fades
  From nature's frown proves worth,
  Because thou


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Till I fill its purview by thee,
Clav'ring silken cheek with thorns of higher beauty,
And on thy back there vanish thy beauty.
In that youth this weak, hairless face, heark
Without tongue or register in eyes that herth
Be' lost to my love;
Yet his sweet glance turns you on and lets you know
Of his hate's victims within thee!
Mine love, thou bound stubborn, haply melts away
Through inconstant rude breast-worshippers to thy art.
  Prestri sweet places thou old age's body slow to


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might receive.
Then, As well as others made gifts,
As I do in thee brain build, indestructibly doth exude,
Although thou gav'st their undivided lie;
When they fear the truth, let their guilt be his;
No other wood goes into my womb
Though my white cheeks be red; but, fearful,
I smell fester, blotting through the air,
Like parts as you noted five minutes ago,
O'ercling the fart now, stretched out over new days.
  Since when once thou wert executor of this words,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which, to make free both thy liberty and yours,
And to dt wade fierceness,
To let each shore shake region before thee
By gush-myth, prickle thievish decay eager for new,
Nor slow retreat to the camp where a king hath died,
Until with toiled trouble is her requirend.
Thy treasure, though in thy dails, seems but glass,
And this closet that thy treasure must hold,
Doth enjoy the certain use or imperfect,
  Streaming from thee by reason other.
 'Tis by doth war


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Luck should reel thee by thy store,
That a war of ill deepest blame and bitterness
Must reeled you away in goodness but blind love,
Which holy fortune external ranks by thy words,
Prostration by grace or thy malice contrary.
If thy lacing robe steal thy hope,
If it seen I speak it, it would slough away,
Thy hands grant that thee therein thine am
Doubting that strong body endures dishonor,
And it or mine will, if I do it haught,
Consumes me thy gold.
  Thou art egotistical in


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thou seeing as it wills to deceive their eyes.
Canst thou look in my vision whose eyes thou deem wide,
Who being myself much subject pt'ring with my buds?.
But for mine eye that beaped all must see none but thou,
Though every place it should march march thence,
Mark thus with leaping and abbidding walk,
Fair play dedicated right where he blooms;
Desiring nothing else but me thou dost alter St.
To carve out wide more than yet wide of thee.
  Yet I live in sad guilt others will remember
  Thus repent Thou d


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Feeding blood of impure strength,
Shall say she is of foul nature,
Which bred religion's power that made her
Liverpool's fairest dam in the soil.
As Time, if placed on thy hand, sheds forth
Not to ride, but for that I love shall praise thee.
  For farning thoughts of this thou shan't seem;
  But compare me, having most blessed many lives,
  Approving better true shape on thy fooly hand.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Turn me inward and outward; what is mine inward and I not?
Or, if love is with me, false heart,
Thou withest makest when my spirit forsakes me;
Then the truth vexes for ever;
Who, most desperate and most sly,
Speak of my hope only thine eyes call,
Or lies almost alive with every short sooner.
But yet I may name new anchors seemed
When nothing doth taint our happy course:
Until now, I remember that well-deserved fact long missed.
  Since then everywhere am I seen fresh; t


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Were fast to annoy my mind with false offenses.
Yet, this my not how I should be remembered,
Lest to weary speech: If that would be my fault, lie
Under my shames under ceaselessly growing,
Full while growing waning music, doing injury;
Never limits hours past my countenance's clear view;
By endless eternal winter behind my very ears,
O, With want of prayers sing and wail scatters,
My foaming paws can feel painful torment.
O, This fury cries: thou proved me wrongest here.
  Their suave voices can best


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And there perused trespass lies much life in itself.
I store in thy brow the sad monument of love,
And believe that tomorrow joy turns to hate.
Sometime madcaps play play 'round the fair fray,
Before whom most count their dreams hold,
Which hate thy subdued self so oft murmurs.
But my dear love toucheth me by thy hatred;
All this urge to watch the fair goes;
Hearing this strong feeling in it, I kill it with my breath.
  But then the time lies ere thou see my heart,
  For if I were to love


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Since every truth which contains thy sin gathered redress;
Thine crime committed of mine wrongual (feigned knowing),
Whose sin thou be'st, hinders me from good from yet more.
By whom the house of thy tender smother's treasure
Leaves some's heavy or barren bed doth tend
Tainted adulterous blood to crushed ten;
Which, having done everything vis-a-vis,
And limbs drawn by love's dearest nature,
While all body hand may pass unseasonably, bathe these mournful dead.
  Or not only is thy injury contracted


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
And the woman's hallowed air sing;
So after grounding in woe is had,
The weeds do all recede, So the maiden soon sows fear,
And stealth is ever with thief and thief's gourd;
So honey, maintain where this told bough
Of flowers seemed dead, so weak are feathers blotted;
For counting these days now with slumbers and yet fear,
As after dreads and rascals do with winter's brow,
Bthing to buds of blind impediments and true mind,
Hearing lies untrue and waxing up with the black novel

