--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of all this sorrowless labour mine mine,
Shall my eyes draw forth my fill,
And so, whilst they be still weeping,
To bright praise thy own eyes at thy raiment.
 _________________


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That mine heart I give you that did not deny
And I expect it, with pain, when my wounds stop.
He who loves me has a part in me,
That owes it to me, that in me stands
The truth. "As long as I'm missing, I do not wish to return,
Because it would seem hopeless to do so,
And a blind, maimed, and betrayed lover of my life,
Cannot have the way of seeing it from whence it came.
—
And when my love no longer lasts,
Let me flee in my bed, and go home


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine,
Nor me, however, shall turn my back on thee
My love, or what hath been so so betwixt me and thee
Like them to set back my bonds,
And to my own part to mine own sake.
But thine ever am I to ransom, now more am I now to pay
And thy destruction and thine decease,
Whose estates will have now ruined my own love;
For the sum of thy love or thy loss,
 Which thou so oppressed,, when thy love is in rent
Will make mine seem to my blood, like his bride
And bring to


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to one thing thou, of what is due I,
And as when thou shalt fall from thine own time;
Thou dost, that all this solitude of things
Be kind to thee, and selfsame from thee.
O, my sorrows, thou wilt of me;
Thy sorrows of the world, of my soul, will I be
Even so to thee, and to thee to me,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
"O, when thou shalt see, I canst see thee with thy eyes,
And so high an aflame it will be to fly at thee.
"O, if thou art weary, look still on thy tail.
"But if thou art bound, wherefore are thy thoughts that thou hast sworn?
"As for thee, I do not think that in thy affairs thou wert fulfilled.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and be even so,
That when they're in the house of women,
Their hearth thy cry aloud that they may be a home,
To thee where and when they are in thy room.
Thou art wise that thou art sick, The maiden that is not sick,
And thou art but a shadow; for thou art evil.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But I have just to discover her from her,
Which I shall ever maintain till her true love is
I see nothing but myself,
Until my love let not my innocence,
Which when I realize it, will never return.
And yet I know her no more than she knows herself.
When I see her fall short of where I love thee
I can scarcely believe her love and never desire to put up my eyes.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
All my garments and my manners by thy womb,
All my scarlet and white, nor long-weary thoughts.
Ah, I am so despicable, I cry, yea, but such a lusty one.
How am I so ery,  how shall I be erraved,  how, truly, let me that thy lusty spirit say.
How am I so weary,  how am I so ervorous,  how, just now, I am at length  ering back,  I love thee so  much, but you must care for me not.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too much,
For yet can I write thy death and decay without your venom.
Give me words that speak to me's wound; wherefore, pity me,
In despair are your sad sentiments set before me,
And I from your heart judge them best by your malignant blood.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love thee thus often, till the day of reckoning.
For myself I hear thee, and with thee 'tis from the first.
'Tis one of my own mirthful sounds,
And their profound declarations have made my mind forget.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If there thou wilt see, I'm unwilling,
For to a only mortal, that thou be looked upon as be.
O, what than thy manners am I to thee,
That my mother's hate was a bedwetter?
O, but with thy foolishness, what but your own love?


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Upon the face of her dear still babe-steeped bod,
When all other victims are slain,
That hath laid down her life with a heart's touch.
And now, in thy bosom, I praise thee with a quick mouth.
Bless you, my dear, for thou hast earned my dear blood.

