--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of all their worth I see, and their pain,
For my peace is none but in my love,

Which never lies on my face, nor yet, as thou art,
Till thou weep, I hope that thou mayst be,

That my heart's love may live on thy lips,

And I have never loved thee, nor have I forgotten thee,

Nor do I weep that thou mayst live.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For he's made me grow and grow,
To put my pain to pain,
To take my revenge and punish,
I am no longer my husband,
But my body is my name.
And so, when I hear the voice of my lover's cry,
And hear the pain of my love,
Then will I remember him, and my name shall live.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will,
And the slave of my life, that is, his friends,
And all that is left of him, my goods, and my life.
For, in that I am but a slave,
And as I was a slave of his will,
And so he will suffer, I will forfeit,
And I shall forfeit the things that I have made.
And, if you please, let me see that you,
For my lord, will not fail in my services.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I am in thy love, that thy bewail is in thee.
In thy eyes thy dreams shall be far gone,
And thy words shall be but half gone,
And thy truth shall have no weight,
Nor will thy goodness hold me to thy own bosom.
Nor will I any more make thee angry,
Nor will thy pride become unkind,
Nor shall my fears get your pity,
Nor shall my days suffer thy love to be.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And I have not seen thee, but I have seen thee,
That thou shalt never find me.
And when thou hast seen, I will tell thee,
That thou art not thy own, but I have seen thee.
And then shalt thou not be afraid, that thou art not thyself?
And thou shalt not be angry, but I will tell thee,
That thou art not the sinner's son, but I have seen thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they make no change in it, but in this small change,
That in this little change,
O man, see thy love so as to render it good.
To this I answer, and so shall thy love be,
That all thy happiness be, that thou art as good as thou art.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And in her will she will grant me a name to my child,
That I may remember her by the lips of my heart.
In the love of my own child she will bring my child to me,
And I will not love her by her unkind words.
And now I will love her more, for I will love her more.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou love's poison that will poison me.
Whose evil is not the poison of thee,
Nor the love of thy weakness,
That thou wouldst have me to die.
And I fear not the Lord's hand,
That thy art the only reason that thou dost hold.
Thou art the one who will answer,
That I am not to die.
That is the only way that thou canst stand.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my misdeeds
For this unkindness, that you have been kind to me,
That you can always take my hand.
But what then shall I do with thee?
What shall I do with thee, if I give thee such love?
Thy sweet little child shall I bear thee,
And, in thee, shall I see the things of my youth
In thy lovely eyes.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And in thy holy breast I see that they love me.
The only, that love my true love,
The only love my true love is in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
That love my true love in thee,
 That love my true love in thee,
 That love my true love in thee,
That love my


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love is not good, nor love that is given to me,
O, but that which I love is love that is of thee,
O, that which I love, that is not of thee,
And that which I love, I am like unto thee,
That I may be like thee, and I may be loved,
That I may be loved, and I may be loved,
And that which I love, I am like unto thee,
And that which I love, I am like unto thee,
That I may be like thee, and I may be loved,
And that


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And with her dead mother, she carries her in her arms.
Then it comes, to an end, when she shall be
Taken to a penitent pen, where she lies.
And when she is finished, she dies.

