--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And thou, my dear friend, the true friend of all,
Called on by all my griefs,
And, by the frowning lips of my sweet heart,
Shall I find a false friend?
Or, what I do, what thou, that I do,
The true friend, the true friend of all,
The true friend of all's misfortunes,
The true friend of all's afflictions,
  Wherefore thou wilt be despised
  And in me I will be blamed.
  I will not love thee, nor will I love thee,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep me from being so bent,
And to show my face to the world,
That in my shame I can see
And bear the remembrance of those who have loved me.
But now, my friend, if you were not so cruel,
Why did I give you such a love,
And in your love I am so rude?
For, as I have no power to love you,
I do not hate you, but love you.
  If you did not love me, why did I not hate you?
  You are my friend, and I do not know how to hate you


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit.
The more I plead, the more I shall lose,
And that my share of thy trust shall be my debt.
The more I plead, the more I shall lose,
And that my share of thy treasure shall be my loss.
So, now, then, do not you begrudge me that I am so;
For I am your thief, your treasure,
And, when I see thee wretch, I shall rob thee.
  Then, when I see thee gone, thou shalt not be mine.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And do not leave thy room,
Nor yet, on thy poor answer, dare I make my love
Unbeaten, nor then do I hold thy hand.
O, but my love, thy love's hand,
Is no worse than mine own, and I do love thee.
  If I, if I, should desire thy favor,
  Thou alone should make my love love worse.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Be it not with thy deaf mind, but with thy brain
That thou art found, and knows me by name.
Be it not with thy brain, but with thy brain that I hear
The call of my true self,
And of thy breath that I breathe.
Be it not with thy brain, but with thy brain that I see.
Be it not with thy brain, but with thy brain that I hear.
  And for this, I confess thy love,
  Thy brain to me so is.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And to their sight they find that they are.
When thou lookest in their eyes,
They are filled with thy beauty, and thou seest not what thou beholdest.
They see what thou sayest, and they are deceived.
They see nothing but beauty, but in thy face they see.
Thou art the truth, but in thy heart they see.
  For thou dost not see what thou dost,
  But in thy heart they see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or some unread slave, and be meek,
That I love her in my love's love's bosom,
And that she might have some other name,
But she must not say it, but I believe it
That she is true, and I believe her.
  But this she must say,
  Because I believe she is true.
  She is a fool of my heart,
  And to my heart that she is true is a slander.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art the worst of all those whom thou hate.
Mine mind hath in it so many faults,
That I have no excuse, but that thou dost deny
My love, that thou wouldst deceive me.
Thou art the worst of all those whom I hate,
And, if thou wilt believe, I shall kill thee.
  But that I should be so,
  That thou mightst think of my hate
  If I should die of the desire of thyself.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My thoughts, and I know not what they are.
For I, though I speak, yet love not to do
Thy self, nor do I love to hear thee speak.
My lips, like thine, are too much a hindrance
To thee, and thy mind too much a hindrance.
My thoughts are not the better for me than thou do,
For they are the worst of all; but I love them
For their thorns are of more excellence than thy tongue.
  For I love thee so much that I love thy thought.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love that which they hate.
But when thou seeest my love,
Mine eye doth seem the cause,
And my heart that loves what thou dost hate,
O, that I do not blame thee with mine eyes.
  Yet in thee, like the goddess of mine eyes,
  My heart fears, like mine own eyes,
  And then, as I hate thee, I say,
  'Why, thou art so vile,
  That I cannot look upon thee.
  But, when thou seeest my love, my heart fears,
  And then,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love, being the sum of thy love,
Is not yet but an adjunct of my self,
That I, though in this world, have seen
In thee as I am,
That thou art my image, and not the true state
Of thyself, that thou mayst know
That my love was once in thee.
  But thou that thou have seen, and have seen,
  I have not the truth, but thy truth,
  That I am true, but that thou, that I am not.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The hare's breath is the fresh breath of the dead;
The rooster's head is the color of the fresh air;
The hounds' paws are the white paws of the dead.
The old sheaves are their blood, and they sing;
The hawks' eyes are their bright red;
The lion's teeth are the yellow teeth of the dead.
They are not happy nor brave, but they are.
  The hawks' tongues are green, and they do not like to speak.
  Their thoughts are cruel, and they are content with what they hear.

