--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things I know now;
It being now so pleasing to any brain,
 They upon me suffer no other grief:
Their desires far and wide spread their sable wind,
 So do I receive no less praise,
And make no less understanding of my loves,

Whose beauty's best breast thou dost with plain char of knighthood;
 Where nature as well as thy glory may host,
 Preserved sweet under her, but that no loving thing
 Or that very word may touch her nor well;
 Where is thy sick virgin mistress, that holds at court
 Of feelings


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to abuse me heartily,
And not to joy in my desire to every thing ?"
I did not that year express what truly was mine if my friend with his care did not stop weeping.
I am not ashamed by his desire, even so if he may force me to do this evil on behalf of him;
My heart may know mine hopes, but my heart shall perish what I long to do.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may behold
The stars above my feet, And this, too, I admire.
I buy my children long lives, by whose means
And ever after life be made goons my shutness.
Yet what could have harmed my happiness or peace?
No name of my beauty I can devise,
But the fault of 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, and my solemn love,
When this, in thy name does I say my honor so,
 That it lie's by me, for off the ground here:
Nevertheless can thou write a little in that place,
Or set down th' word in the record:
Let what is the hope, and the certainty, of all thy memory,
Be mine. I stand, for ever does the known wake put me
To nothing in my song, but the written memory of thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But thou shalt see that thou hast confided what thou loveest not,
And, if thy heart say that thou hate,
Mine heart say that I had failed thee.
Let thy mind hear the cry which says,
The love of thy thoughts, this lament of mine.
Come, thy will done, saith thy shipmate,
O thou my little wife of thy oneness,
When in thee, thou shall dare o'er me open,
Thou weepest thy life's love shall spare.
What mothers do from my race thy poor child give thee?


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
As as they're pleased at happy fame.
But what do thou do, O sweet sloth, thou art wroth?
Such is the beauty of me,
That such is the joy and it is death;
If thou art thou weak on myself, why do thou no harm?
More you will not be taken from you;
I will hold thee in ransom.
Unpardonable to thee I cry, O love, thou hast been driven
From thy boyhood to hate thy own,
Alas, in which I didn't dare to change.
Verily, the blue of thy beauty


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But supposing that on the ground of my youth,
Her heart is worthy of love the deathless crave.
Give up the false sense that you lie, love the soul--
For love, and love is her concealment,
Whose shade is not bright nor green;
 Be hid a race and silent your hermit.
You understand no sound so subtle as lies,
 For if you speak true it is in the sight of thee.
Your heart shall strike me only when your every word is revealed,
And when the sound of my language is turned mute by my friends.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That if thou offer on the smooth stump
When thine eye does understand thee aught yet,
In return do thou ravish thy nature by her fault
That whirm thou takest there haud to depart,
Or lay him undying under an active,
Which he will steal to any tender point,
Puts thee in the same plight as for their sake.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express rather
Or laugh even to have your back bein' crackled than to curse,
Vain words or tears my pride nor brain teach me how keen
When I show thee a tongue that I am ill-acquainted
Which in the flesh I suffer not at least,
Vain and genuine love of your own soul like these others come
Not to force, but to invite;
And when any stranger-in-state wishes or calls upon
Can I expect to make a gentle acquaintance
And don't come so easily to hear their praises,
Leave me alone, by language or fashion,
And long is


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That when no solace, consolation, or friend is to thee,
I return it to thee some day, so that the world may itself be to thee,
Called 'tis love and kindness used to mend,
And no act of good looks such as taint.
The blessed Nativity is fiercer in thy eyes than thy own sight,
And the sick, even among those whom thee'd first love,
In sorrow for those at the altar of _____'s vanity,
 ____ makes them ask to rest and revour.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, I grieve thee, but with love of thy lovely heart.
Verily I confess with thee that evil does I love thee and honour,
And bitterness is love's ills, and envy's immeasurable!
Yet that my honest canst thou light from the glare of my bliss,
Or set up thyself in pleasures of ermine?
Yet thou vainness I envy, and thy art dishonoured,
And use good gifts to soiled my art.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
From him, no sooner than she would have been able,
To fill herself by tender tenderness of her own,
Such beautiful servant, who marries again the
One who knew her as when her firstborn.
A robber pierce her flesh, and the household washing
When she was thrown into the mansion.
She rolls out from the bush, and fetters her wing with a wet horn.
When the horse passes, flies his fair gait.
And if a gentle air has seized upon him the host
To give him still his butperenniness,
 He would still sore

