--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And then to mine self, to my sorrow,
Though I love you with my life,
That I may not leave thee alone.
That, by my most painful remembrance,
That I may not leave thee alone,
That I may not leave thee alone,



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That my weakness of heart might be seen to grow,
And make my words more accurate?
So my hand, my heart, will say to me,
That I am to be made an example,
To make myself an example of your love,
That you may not find me alone,
But my mind, which will keep me from seeing
And from loving you, will praise you with a happy smile.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall suffer.
And when the thief will know, he shall give
The last of his inheritance to the robber,
And all his rest to the slave,
And all his soul to his own in this state.
For it is not his will, nor his will,
Nor his love, nor his pleasure,
Nor his true goodness, nor his heart,
Nor his soul, nor his flesh,
Nor his life, nor his death,
Nor his fortune, nor his death,
Nor his present life, nor his past life.
Now when the thief will know,
I will steal his,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For I see not thee, in all thy power,
Thou willest me do with thee.
More than thou shalt want, thou shalt love,
Thou shalt give, thyself to thy will,
For I am willing to thee, and in thy mercy,
Thou shalt give thee.
So shall thou love me, and with me,
Thou shalt love thyself, and with me,
Thou shalt give me thy own soul.
Thou shalt give thyself, thyself, thyself, thyself,
To thyself, thyself, thyself, thyself


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thy soul seek to go to thee,
And see thy shame and your sins,
And you must at least believe that thou art a child,
For I am not thy shame, but my sins,
And I have been sinning for thee,
And my shame will never rest,
For my soul knows, and thou art a child.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And not from the end, but from the center,
Where all things are by nature.
They know how they can do nothing,
But they know how they must, and how they must
Take away from me my love, that I may love thee,
And when I die, I will be gone to the world
And, when I die, I will return to thy love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might never be so worthy of my love's eye
She has always believed in me.
My love never lies, and yet,
When I behold her now, I think she has no mind,
And she would think I would tell her to tell it.
I do believe she will not think of me,
But that she will see me, that she will be a friend,
And I will be of her love's eye.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I say unto thee, O man, to do thy works;
And when thy beauty hath seen thee,
To do thy good works thou dost have.
Thou art not so much with me, that thou dost desire,
Thy good deeds of mine, but my sufferings,
Thy flesh, which I didst, is my consolation.
When thou art dead, my grief shall be healed;
When thou art young, my joy shall be comforted;
Thy grace shall be filled with thy grief,
And thy love shall be my comfort.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My faults to my ears, or when my mind is full of regrets.
But when the lips of the same tongue shall be held,
I will no longer see my heart as one of many.
When my heart shall be full of pain,
I will not remember it, nor do I think of my own;
Nor will I feel my sorrow, nor do I feel my sorrow
Nor do I feel my love, nor do I feel my love
Nor do I feel my pride, nor do I feel my pride
Nor do I feel my grief, nor do I feel my grief
Nor do I feel


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And the words of their hearts speak
For my part: but 'tis mine that must love thee.

So, when I see thy wretched face,

My soul, with its long, still thoughts,

And my soul, with my thoughts,

Which I must love, I love thy spirit,

And I love thy love, too,

To love thee alone.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love for thyself, which is mine own,
Which love thou art in the heart, and which I love.
And love thyself to thyself, and thyself to me,
Thy love for me, and my love for thee,
Which love thyself to thee, and thyself to me,
Which love thyself to me, and my love to thee,
Which love thyself to me, and my love to thee,
And love thyself to me, and my love to thee,
Which love thyself to me, and my love to thee,
Which love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
And will not take it, for her eyes are full of tears.
So she makes a quick course of crossing,
And always makes sure to go to her sister's bosom,
Which when she turns back will be her beauty's beauty's
Sufferings, and the glories of her wildest fame,
Which she so graciously gave her life.


