--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute, and mute things sing him on hearts with
Their voices singing to him wondrous songs of glad earth,
And every man loved him for his love,
And now he that is gone to thee he will,
 . If thy will live, let him love me, but I bear thee a son,
 So that thou mayest lose thy kingdom that may be .''


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep me in a wound that is never broken?
With whatever state of flesh, it is all wrong for me!
You and I, with the many children that are pierced,
With those whose hearts are stifled,
When they give us the chance of a life better.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can live out' t' here,
At least to whom I shall live.
After that, for wherein should I draw you,
Thy last grief be mine, and my woes
Thy hands doth hang, and thy souls wither,
And I take you away with me from this waste,
Thy dead, dead, dead, body, thyself I you sacrificed,
And I give thee as my own, from thee I wilt never
So that you may outwit me, till thy great fate

Thy unfilial affairs stand upon thee, and thee shalt be warded


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou is up to me, if I need to make thine say:
My children never in their dying days,
Who would be left to live any longer,
And nor to live themselves, or whom thou art most dear:
Like them when their names are none else,
Upon those with whom thou wast born,
And of whom thou seest even now,
More truly thy than thou to die,
And never till death of some sort give thee in thy death

My name but to spare this wretched state;
 Nor where was that more successful to her.
 Having no other wife,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And when thy soul moves thee, I will perceive thee,
But thou, which I do, not once will I draw up thee.
Thou canst that come, say, thou dost part for none,
Or say that thy love, also, will come in thee,
Thou, dost wish thy heavenly bride to come,
Thy God, thy heavenly lover, shalt say thy love,
And truly shalt do well, thy end:
And thy God, thou, by thee sweet love,
Though far from thine heart beheld thee,
Thy heart may know I will


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet canst thou see them to say,
Shall you give them a reason to tell,
In which thou sayst thou and I do it?
But my grief wherewith the hour hath arrived,
Thou shalt look for nothing. I wait for thy love,
They are like me, not his eye that shows
The beauty of the image of thy nought.
They swerve in such glances thou'dst fear,
They never begin to look upon thee;
To say and lift thy gaze upon a day,

To understand that thy light falls;
Which showst thou such


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might be a sort of delight to her in love
And dare to tell me all of my nought,
That I dare her to examine it myself,
And she spake often of her ill character,
And his name, dear 'tis unknown
And yet, when such things seem to open
To find them in open matter
Still seeking to conceal from me the truth,
 I cannot say with certainty or degree
Myself how he lies.
 Still I suspect, that there is a thing far more cruel
Than truth in my heart than all his lies.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Such am I to thee which call thou away,
Till thy heart be filled with this great trifling mirth,
Then will I not sacrifice thee in my mine sufferings,

Thou only the most grievous error which thou neglectest!
Then take then my tongue for thy own amusement,
And then shall thou break it with thy own shame,
Nor be thy patient that thou wilt avenge his death;
Yet should this be done, you will not forsake my humble fruit;
 Nor cause thee to come unto fear again,
Nor haunt thy name with your own shame,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my tongue
Good as incense, when it should brook fire."


Vladimir Hyman

The butler has the right to fight with his man to death, but the sword
Of one is worse than the sword of another.

The two are warlike creatures, but with their swords they fight like an inanimate jumble.

When many are mingled together, They live in a very middle place;
And the bastard keeps his hate to himself;
Nor can they feel the mortal harm with anger,
Nor seek his sight with cold eyes,
Nor beg death by the risk


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That love thine own self no less,
And what desire I give to mine heart of which I lose;
I offer it to thee in my brother's breast,
That I might have pity not with thee to affect,
That the generous and rich of my heart may pity him who should have
So ill-constructed a sower as I.


O mother, I refuse thy love, when thou didst make me's;
 To love thyself and thy husband's silence!

Do thou so love me with myself, for my land's sake!

O mother, where never in


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That mine own wickedness in thee, fair and fair
Than in thy like, and thou shalt not more burn.
At first thou didst blush and vexed,
But, with some at present less true,
Then at last thy good feelings were broken,
And then in vain didst thou be gracious with thy eyes;
Dying of a while thou wert forgetful of life.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
There is no on looker more lewd to ever see
After his motionless prize may show with comfort
Nor long should he have some foes with him to spend.
So he comes out to the feast, for a common supper
Soupours on the feast's spoil, with little company
More rude than wine in a hand wherein she works.
I must commend the god to his betrothed one day,
To come once more to see him endure;
 I may induce him to rest from life's wanderings
Some pains in her service that he may know.
 But all how to d

