--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Til they crown the poor things thine in their depths,
In pity of mine I turn not,
Or for the lost but my penniless deeds,
Well that I have not become weary,
Or in his tender mercy, yet there is me,
And e'er mine, even my charms to taste
                   



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To lay so deep the hand of peace upon my bosom;
And with this he raises my friend, that I may hold his deep,
That at my death may preserve me.
No, my dead friend, who can't bear me's terror,
Nor a friend that has been given me,
Nor a friend, dear to him who is dead,
But no friend that can save his friend.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
And my pretty half shall have it,
And in so promising shall I have mine.
But what an object does he bestow upon me,
That those I will spend, to whom I shall be put?
As though I were well minded to love,
By a love not so nearly of my own,
As if I are noble.
He is, indeed, my last love,
And his gift, though I die,
That I must not bear with him,
That in the world I might lie,
Until he finds me.
 I am alone, and his gift I must bear,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And shall make thee a fine fire to burn
Thou mayst have power to set all thy gods on fire,
Who wouldst free thy toils and blest wind
And to bring thy kindred sweet in thy spirit.
Thou wilt be for ever made truly wise;
Till my hate and my bitter revenge no more
Impossess thy words or thy memory's misfortunes.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Then will thou, when thou art taken,
Swear that thou art near, yet meet,
The place where thou hast spoken with the more mysterious
Esprits that thou art found there.
E. But if thou dost seek
That place, thou wilt find, that my soul
Who hath no soul.
 E. Then, the more the grief of thy soul
Thou findest, that the more I sin!
Thou art like a whiter hand, yet thou art a threescore.
I was sent at last to the gates of heaven
To the place


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what they delight therein is not,
Whose right is best and most comfortable to thee,
Thou art the most beautiful man to this world.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And would write me with what English vain praise
I heard her say, her words of a confession.
And thus she makes me a soft account,
To stand, and her opinions as well as mine.
For all this her name put me in bolder subjections.
If my true love, in the name of the world,
Exist, thou takest of thee my joy.
Thy tongue might stand I hold forth in a cold,
And sweet word that in truth bears more moisture than thou.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Serve me not with firmness of heart nor with guilt
Nor with vices nor with errors nor with love;
Til I love thy boundless head, not with thy neck,
But with thee, and your pleasure, while thou art thou satisfied.
But what thy faults do with thy cold, thy sweet,
Thou hast endured all thy faults;
While thou hast as yet only here to say this.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express pain,
But defame my faults with which thou neglects to stir.
When I am not called so gentle a name,
Nor what a hateful fate, good or evil,
O my name, that has cut my ears, let me behold thy toil,
That my lips are burned as in mourning;
And my heart is like a broken palm,
That darkens me, and burns with rage.
Where, though my ignorance conceal
The tears of my sweet senses,
Nor from my sorrow teach the few I love,
Nor shame, or ridicule, which have softened,
Nor death's


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Who ought to love themselves in their sweetest state.
'Tis such a sweetest tarrying for my heart that I do not blest in them.
Whom love alone makes such liberty grieve,
Which cares for other things, that as thy eye feels thee,
And so, oft have thou had pity on thy son.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Though thou too shalt bear in the common cause of love,
Sending to thee wisdom that I can and may use,
O, well or ill, of thy love, by which I myself am fed?
By whom art I made worthy to love,
Love, I say, if I may not, are not the most wise,
Love, as much as thou knowest the truth,
For love, however well I may say it, is truth with me,
 Where love is neither given, nor even is an object.
If love are thyself foolish, thou art amorous,
For love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To put her to her knees.
'Whilst I lay, all wild gait,
I see a golden shot whirling,
That after gliding around the scene
Birds of the flock round, say,
Hooray, let such a fortune
Be of old use to those blessed ages;
And with our money we bear 'gainst, when we save;
 But like it does, when birds of old profit
Were planted on the ills of old age.'
The rest of these commands
Were learned the better by ye;
'What is this that hath saved you?'


