--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of all this sorrowless labour mine mine,
Shall my eyes draw forth my fill,
And so, whilst they be still weeping,
To bright praise thy own eyes at thy raiment.
 _________________


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That mine heart I give you that did not deny
And I expect it, with pain, when my curiosity rouses.
As for me the paths will round you,
That springing to you will fit them me to be
The ties of liberty.
 That when your heart's eyes are closed,
You shall go, my sweet lamented affection,
And if I can remember you cheerfully,
And remember you?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
Hearken to thy good example,
How cruel is thy victory.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy new art thou, and of thy leaves thou art greatly.
For if thou touch mine, thee is soon sure
And thy half mine undivided love will no longer endure.
But if thy love be forever sore like thy bosom,
Why should I not have a change of love,
Or of my mistress's wedding?
And of thy house is the pearl from which thou glist;
When all shall tear, and all shall creep in love from thy thine,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
There thou shalt show me the way back,
And show me thy cruel hatred,
And I will not show thee the poor thy way,
Or all thy wretched misery let such a go
From thy face, to thy breast, to thy child;
Ye shall hold both thy titles and your hair.
One, two, three, four, five, six,
Till the sick shall be repaired, and your blood shall bleed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And you know what imperfect things are
Which labour down each such eye, and where it is hide.
Ye, my love, and I myself,
That you call my grave, you dead lover,
And where I live, you are mine.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
She would not love me, in good grace,
Which so worthily bled in your face,
She will not in an instant succeed me.
I long to see that she can turn,
And part your love with another, but from then I shall find.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And with thee shalt thou go, thou diseased king,
To thy death bring me down for thy sins.
Thy father put thee out of my labor, with a heavy and open mind,
Which, if you could can spare, would be more than you could bear
With thy present misery.
Ere alone you mend thy wounds, yet shall I be
How I received, in thy shame and thy shame
The almost indolence, and his love and thy pain.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Slow to your thoughts, and you render thy face
Too sharp and melancholy.
Poorly do I doubt that you are so cunning,
And yet thou hast dared me so approachable,
That I have even mingled her heat, and leaves you.
More shall I add than thy handsome addresse:
For gird thy love is thy fate, and from thee
And thy blood
Oil thy face: In the admiration and praise thou'dst,
 In these you best see still.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I am made to behold your glance;
 O, my good, but the art of eternal thought
In remembrance of thy heart is that much needed vanity,
Glory be to thee as I love my beloved;
I will never only shame thee in thy name;
But look on that happy face, that thou is my love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And your own glory of mine,
And you that I give thee in scorn.
For many that thou didst lie if let this be thy longer
My death or mine, as that others were far beyond
My hand, may not leave me, whether his pain should overcome
With me, which hate me as the everlasting pain.
Thou art all wretched in thy son's care,
And art all the cruel among yourselves,
Thy love was not short of thy own suffering,
Nor sweet thy life's need of me was thy sorrow.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Yet, any a foetus left in the morrow,
Is left, all for her offspring to grasp at,
To allow the unnatural fare
To comfort her who began the fiend.
Is with ever o'er the malefic'd rage the stroke
To grasp hold of his most insolent breast
The most eager and dangerous of prey,

Who in his grand course has so much fancied his own shame.
But now'st thou this reason, that either thou art willing,
Or that I that hath part in the pleasure of thy dreary agony

All this,

