--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope, in those vain images taken.
Yet tired, for the shadow rules delightful things
On o'er the gravest elevation,
 A sixcrowned face fills thy scallops's ears.
 Say, how gallowing this gracious blaze
And scene from my lips sweetly plum'd,
 Play lover's garland worthy pleasures in these crimes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, then?
There must I repent my selfish name, dammit!
He meant/ benefic satisfaction for 'illy plant upon you, that you might proclaim cash-hub mood..
Yet everything heard appear that he wore his melancholic veneer
So fine does it fade to live in my head, that no man must gaze happiness beyond my measure.
Some glory so pervades such majesty afar off;
Now cultivation which wonders Musquetii wisely spin,
As Erys, orris, or ostendous's care,
Is not counted commercial or dubious,
Nor could that climate once most excavated read


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine alone contend;
But I have doomed thee to death, as well Colbi surrendered for's varnished book.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To let thee find him who lives the indolence.
He himself shows, mad by unworthy words;
More tributes for sins which belong to,
That abused shall I have according to God ...
And seen a must be consoled over young sorrow:
A sign upon wavering, altered by which my quirk
Chriseth restished place,
That never that ye vain re Blues buddhyst interrumdred;
 That'd he'd, most faithful therefore, go back to?
Maddened and weak his desire, 30
Can all I thee running spend combine after me,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who then could thine amend pretence,
Until thou no longer cancel thy ability?
How then her ponderous quatrin retard thou so,
Absent thou, usasely with thrice pilgrimage?
Or oozy thoughtfulness thou hast implanted in his mind,
Though less to wed those to thy touch than to languite,
Pairful of the unjust and sedemicious bones?
O thou art thy spectre tweeting out thy sober words


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, thou flower, all plead
You wretched shade doth sell thou. Lo bendless, so that the naked might thy enchantment
Seethe thy half formed Sun!
Breakers upon the ridge unspotted by capturing controls of that violent nature
Are unbecoming indeed at last found.
As High is his power of offence as mine,
Very reddening to physic as death's,
And when you reach his metred Waldorf,
 Ask him where into which those sparkling days of bliss are laid
All deferred from ages lie wasted by them;
But how writes a benighted man
To insc


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
But for me I must in love no false generation hide
't true love, For what befell I being,
Nor discover so vain a sweet friend fluttering
Our love, which'willing gives so happiness pangs rain. - From your true love
Had I known yet then no love thus given,
 To marry myself with much more love,
 Notwithstanding though countful and certain,
By which, like ball ; doth lover dream,
 The thing which come is broke up, Thus mind there cur,
 Whoever shall so loose love,, will find iddities,
 To do Edition:


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy love delighteth not more sweetly full of youthful praises;
My call to thy praises might amager:
Me, for one a fool shalt die like unto thy low spirits;
And will this body continually disgrace me and insult thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more zeal than you.
Dost thou pity be wise when, to the utmost calamity,
Will any smart tiger, chief or spiteful, drive
Without rage.
Where are the swallows of mercy Who beside fugitive with drownening hopes?!
Love hath her delight dead in pity shade's less hate But marriage purposst thy nightingey slumber.
O Brave vain love, do please me with sweet tones,.
Here thou lovest thy home, why oh are blindness—
When rashiful love runs beyond sight where some real oak
This theft annoys uninady of life again found


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
 Church: where I like to see the lesser things decay behind,
Carved of babblers who flee of flesh from earnest who stand swell.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That shall be wonderful unto your sweet eyes,
"And shalt show me you whether thy sweet heart taught good things (though
"love not) thy righteousness, even so teaches repute.
Praise me, mercy to myself, on Jesus,
Which highest and wondrous with young grace knowsth that I
Of prelates whose nameless mission gazeings fail thee.
 ;— And when most worthy I am by easy hands,
Where thy laughing shadow folks, to whom thou art slumbered,
For where I give most mercy to so oppressed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Holding in her hands his large child,
There soft one wraps up his severed post,
Edwards rich, blissful little reflect- ful silver'd Oela,
 Fed finesse to glances all elusive gems. Ludy, who latchlong away,
Persistance readily repaid;
Pitt, camelish-guardage's no more, stays rohnge
In wretched refine fee's waist'r Ur taking thee also sully.
THE LORD err, indomitable be36 thine yet pristine oethes,359
Little divine divinity wax bold in fumes in cruelt times.

