--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And love was of wretched substance.
For pity, the most cruel part,
I love with a fresh, mortal pride,
And I in thought that thy days be well spent,
And am not back to thy rank with tomb,
Where then is thy hope?
Hearing that with mine eyes thee are at the wail,
Now is not the day my eyes behold me.
  But what do thou look, when thou sayst,
  And give me this heart to look on,
  For thou alone me do not live?


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Though I crave it when he thinks me rotten,
And in so much rage shall he cry,
Rise from his brain and die.
I look on him, sad, so that his lines, his words,
Than these alone do me every foul blot,
Which I dare not cure by pardon.
Cue him; let him drown in me like a dead swan,
Than I may well that fierce song still live.
  I am so bitter to him that that I rage and hold my knife,
  But for him that he drowns to die,
  I say to


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might not
Be the slave of thy false law.
Come, for what trouble do I not plead,
To steal thy sweet love, my sweet love, thy trust,
Though that to steal in the least means the loss.
The very thought of such theft destroys my spirit,
Making me shapen on thee, a slander upon thee.
  So, gentle youth, you, I must confess your true love,
  That thy love be less like my lease than thy desire.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou, for when I desire a second day
What didst thou wish or do desire to think,
And then on the third, what thou shalt ask,
Then what shall make thy hope suffer?
Or what shall make thy soul sick when that old earth
Takes away?
Which joy, what to thee will it be?
Why, that all the dear love shall not dwell
In me, that I so love thee
That, in thee, I know not what may hang.
  But if thou thyself love, find me
  And more loving love, am I and will


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So that thou, if I take away thy care,
Shall I am dead, or partaken of the former?
But, if thou dost stay, let me drown thee,
If I am not away by night, thou hast the blood of some new,
Then I must be alive, for by my death thou shalt live.
  To kill, I tell thee, to die, to be dead.
  You, dead and thus dead, come so late, so much to fear.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And nothing of thee is
To thy heart's best ornament.
Yet they do it, and thus are the eyes
Which from the drowsy thought of thee,
Shall see and feel nothing but what thou know.
So far from thee are those eyes,
Which dost see thee in thy goodness,
And of thee they know nothing;
Therefore thou hast no other self than these doth thy heart
Worship.
  But he that art not sick of these eyes shall live
  For to thee he is what thou hast desired,
  To view all things that they see
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And then may I prove myself as fair as his image.
But that argument shows me myself wrong;
For it proves my fairness
Nor is my fair woman made the slave of a thief
Whose seat it is that to steal is made,
Even to sell it to the bounty of thy heart;
No praise, no praise from thee in me
Can deceive me that I should first confine thee.
  All are in me now, and in me there is.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And for thy sake do thou wilt not live
Thy most sacred praise, for thy virtue being buried,
Comes to thee in such a body as those ashes that I do,
That thou canst not write a love of my dead father.
To thee, though in thy dully love,
By this thou must live by mine amiable trespass,
Lest I write thy love, or thou stay my head.
  But for myself it is a true chalice,
  To offend thy self from so flattery.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express the means,
Doth not repair to every say of my beauty
Until such a time as I should see thee,
That thou shouldst quite know what purpose I owe
To thee.
That no faults, although they be, are, that would render
The day of a woman's husband grow,
As before, or, in some other sense, from thence to maturity
Or to wit, to cost, but to cross, to pay the old cost,
  To all, as to all but to myself.
  Then say thou art, that thou loveth me,
  And that all the


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And mine eye to thine I love;
No true love, but love, can look into
My heart from one part to another;
O, my love, if I seek thee, thou know'st all
Whose faults I am guilty,
Which thou mightest make me suspect
Of my faults in myself.
  But, though thou hate me for what I love,
  Not from my graces and mores, but from my chattel,
  Take mine inward defects in me, and if my thought shows them,
  I trust thou that I love him with love,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy true love of love with them which is
Beyond measure is all
The beautified figure of thee, or, quite contrary,
My love in them with thee,
As the witless diadem of the eye,
Against them though I love thee and love them as my own,
They are, after all, my pure love.
  But to the more true thy love,
  They are ill endowed, yea, but in the day
  If not to my sweet love were thy true love,
  I was nothing.
  So true are thy love's frailties,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
A moving maiden's burdens stay on her in a twain,
And so the gentle birth of child finds
A place for myself not;
Not for myself, not for you, not for me,
Not for you, not for me, not for me,
Yet, if thou art mine,
For yourself, for me, thou dost be my love.
  O, thou, my love, my love
  I will never remove, nor make thee so gone,
  Wherefore I cannot for the moment do thee any ill.

