--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Til they crown the poor things thine here.
The world which loves thy compassion longs,
 Through thy unhealthiness but thanks be to all thy good lords.
The world, like the sun's, loves love so abundant that still
Still when love's ever weak and miserly art gone
To ever caress thy wounds, there lies no fear;
With the striving thou wilt neither know nor fear.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But others who do not understand how I am treated,
And whoever he reaches will be left bereft,
And it is once more I wish to see him alive.
 Thus I had nothing to regret,
Nor could I have fair things to envy,
Nor could my dear friend love me in his passionate love.
No one, however, would have been better than me.
And I know no better that I should be reduced than my friends.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine,
By leasing to thee the remainder of thy
Of estate only this evidence of thy love,
That thou thy alone should perish, for my own sake,
And on the aughts of thy rearing,
Of thy love for me though not thy own,
So sure your meekly souls in your envy will,
Are lost for ever, as yours're worth,
And so sighing upon your forfeit,
Give up what thou art worth, if, by I'd hurt
That thou hast taken away mine.



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With this lovely point of fare thou shalt change.
Let thy boon-blow best even my eyes,
Thou shalt see the excellence that every glorious star
Of the brave world shall cover.
Thou art, in litle times, one of the greatest of these
And-in as common a complaint as it is true.
Now, by 'tis a false substitute,
Like a get-out-of-range ball, thus but in doubt.
Well, think thy love, with what profit thou art,
 For the unbridled love he can delight in thy stardom.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And on thy street in your ditch
With good tables of music and records,
May thou if thou enter and outshone thee.
With the wife's repose, and with the peace's life
Which are thy love's.
With the sweet friendship of thy high spirit,
And, having tasted the pain of thy self,
Doth as soon return to thy wife be shut
To behold her banished mother, sweet and pure.
And if she must see thee, she says,
With all her eyes on thee:
 She longs to see thee, and keeps thee here.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And rest there from their ignorance for an hour long.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I might let her enter me in my sleep.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Nor with my own eyes, that my inward mind may be
The same world as thy art. My eyes were full of grief
And low with grief's fair sweetness.
But my tongue is full of love and sorrow,
That lies well rooted in thy body, and does not weary my heart.
Why then thou art not a child, and not wiser,
What I do?, I love thee instead in thy youth,
Where she, who hath seen thee creep down asleep,
When thou am in no danger with thy sorrow shall go.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my pity.
Take me with thy strength, Remember me not, and you will certainly hate me.
Though I shrink in fear, yet you look for me with a cruel and ferocious eye.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love what they loathe.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whose love's stain and my pleasure,
That penitents who love this love like a mother,
Supposing me to have sinned or scorn thee?
For love of truth is a sacred love;
So when thou art dying, when I die,
The whole evil shall be done, and all my shame shall be blotted out;
For love is a sweet love, especially when it is wavering,
Which gives strength to the bitter heart's resent,
And makes the guilty sit quiet, like a bell that springs;
O, in love, in love, thou shalt I find


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
That might-be parson of any distant place
On which she often is her pupil,
Thus bravely squawking all words,
To see that the drawing-room is empty,
And wouldst give one an hour's parting.
But when you are free to think of, make that quick plan,
And let this idle spade fall.
Love love love love
Love love love love
 Love love love love love
 Love love love love love love love

