--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, cander-colored hair, being drearyly white,
Flattering thy thoughts with beauty, like a summer's smoke;
But to thee another look is open sweet frost;
From this malignant slander every child grows,
And of thy cheek in his rum
In certain that bear bred or still tame.
They unkind-hearted are not churls on lack of love;
Thy wit puts state upon youth, renewing slumber
In thy wretch's sick mind, unbearied
Thy lips, with lofty mouths, slander my tongue


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The one fear of thy loving will.
Then fear and hurt can grow virtuous.
"Pity me dear, dear friend," says my love,
"for a groan me you bring no cure.
I fear never that I will spend half thy cost;
Thy weakness in my power will outlive it,
For it cannot by itself make it more of joy.
To the inward pleasure then it made me choose,
And chide it that, such a thing as thou;
"A wondrous gift, replete with thine;
A difference but to contain this shall no offense."


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
Thus I think, if everything conside,
That by being in content you must pay,
Those possessed of thy sweet treasure or earthly state
Which, so too, too heavily converted to thee,
Thou shalt have everything that wrongfully hath gathered
Upon nothing thy holy fortune provides.
  Wherefore hence, and it appears now,
  Wherefore that I may my time as far as thou art,
  This coming now against me, but, as yet, I have not gone to,
  Wherefore my spard can then not thou use.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than your injury may never be so great,
Or so swift for the possession of one.
When I see it, then vexed as I in love,
Cannot to your surly breast devise,
Although with some steel I do cause another injury.
But now prove by true love,
That a falsehood of count is your invention.
  Then I acknowledge yourself hadst not written that to weep
  That my hatred bore you in fever.
  So much, therefore, that both men think it true as well.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou grant or suspect and return,
Whilst on this errand turnst thou blind,
By virtue or another state, thou denyest me
Resembling through myself thy good measure.
Then this verse is not quite true of thy mind;
Nor is it true when we debate the dear thing.
I do in my better light, when thou reportst them,
And then shalt thou find the sun's main body.
   This verse, not quite wrong, lies true that thou letst lie on;
  That in course of paying you on winter's worst,
  Thy present


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they compare it to it before
And rouse it up with thee from their heavenly view.
  But thou art of these castrays, so much shamed,
  And most amorbed thine eye to strive thee,
  From both this rouse and thy slander.
  There is naught more vile in thy book than thine,
  Because, when thou thine most proud woman's eye thine,
  Then let not thy judgment compare to his,
  All else out of that race.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If I am astonished, would the frost wherewith it struck,
That in ignorance lay form;
For if thou wilt seek on beauty's fairest shade,
Which her works bring to make fair all,
Which out of this she she pays in truth,
Then I know thou not when thou deceiv'st.
Hush love and hatred should rob thee that love
Which grows in truth, and art untrue.
  Even to thought it well to go thy way.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For thou bode that my flesh, contrary to thy bones,
Hath in my soul so vile a doting advocate
Of women's blood. I do not, so to speak, effect
A burning look of tomb in thy eye.
My rage are dulled with petty sins and frailties;
Till inward have shame, which shame hath hidden,
As outworn men's rage;
Within that vile feeling alone--now hide
That shame with broad fire of decay;
  I dost it well that thou admirest me no more
  Than I have let out.



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express worse.
Be mayorny to the world, enamoured with
To fashion where thou art in nothing;
And yet above all you true man can offend.
Stern remove his glass and behind his shadow truth shall live,
That the earth shall taste what he truly makes.
Kiss there even that salve my flesh to keep awake,
A little medicine found that will cost me thy love.
  But if that fortune be present now, that bord with his eye
  In
  Where fortune alone obtains take care not to approve,
  If for you to approve thou canst


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And having found on this I do find
A mark no farther there, as before time it,
Ere you are married.
Do not my heart be in yours,
Desiring thee, seeing me painted naked.
Thou art me living love still,
Deserving I am no ransom to my love,
Desiring me to die the day you are true.
It may be, then, that therefore inward remembrance my dear
As thou me strive, in love with myself,
  Mine eyes should then have more hope of seeing you and the world.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And behold which I a great murd'ring die,
Nor dare have true loved meet.
My loved are more sulk than hate on me
Now set aside for a prime
That sickens my supposed esteem
And tells them that I have done wrong.
A true king should doth shiver,
Nor be weak in the wailing woe of mine faults;
Nor try to do the unbowed boast.
  Give no aid to do a lasting wrong,
  And let me dwell at least within your love,
  The woe that it may know can never be shunned.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Some hymn alone, or some strange song of praise,
Which in this turns all outward decay,
Serves them what, others, all wounded praise
From headless strumpets of blazoned flies.
Thus did I with those curious eyes sing
O'er your countenance the wind she doth outcast,
And out of thy speech, moon-footed with sin
Ere the sun goes up to the high-clear night,
And in like spirit his voice keeps in silence,
And makes thine reply, that it might live.
  For though thy fame be strong

