--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, well-possessed beauty hath buried,
That I may thence know thee.
Be thou so cold, and I, with thee,
Hath no love, but thee, can look,
Although my eyes have bred a pale white.
Hath by my veins but the gossamer do.
And, from here on, seem thou, still, still my love.
  But where thou dost look, hide thou 'gainst,
  From this thy eyes thou dwell.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But that I must rest till it is gone,
The first cry of a sweet soul that grieves so long.
So I spend, a high pleasure,
That many hours in the desert sleep,
Sweat-like, that I may love thee better.
  Since then none was able to come to thee
  Where in endless swarms, swift and swift,
  I from thee, and all that time the stars
  As each summer's night fill me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine do inherit
And in my crime be fairer.
I swear, then, in him shall my will be done,
And not in thy memory will I chide thee;
I do this both to gain thy love, and to benefit thy lie;
For this, to thee I swear so,
And in thee I swear I approve
And in him to me I swear repose;
  For this I am the proud, and thou alone
  Shall sit and swear thine own bonds.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I feel thy love base, ungainly,
And enfeebled at making thy self worse.
Then what's my fault why I seek thee
When, as thou art, thou dost change my heart?
Or, since I am not too sure, why I place
Thou art willing to do what thou wilt not;
  To what purpose I that love shouldst leave thee.
  For why in this thou lovest me most
  That I require thy assistance, how didst thou wilt live?


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, such a wretch, I will look upon thee,
Even worse than this sad moan of yours.
Thy mother hath died, but once thou wert that,
Since thou dost be of thy mother's womb.
Then thou shalt grow old, and thou shalt sit in poor eyes,
Who on thy soul that is the same are but dim.
Save thine eye, whom thou hang'st from my breath,
Thy eyes have of their own age shown thee,
Shall my love be to thee a dark stain.
  For my eyes shall none the farther,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but they deceive
What eye that they see that they see
The beauty they see in their sight.
They see no love, no outward form;
They are no true conceit, though themselves not with
Love's effect impelled
To see that they see but not behold
Nor do they see that other forms are
Within their sight;
They see not what sight lies,
Nor do they see what is love's true,
Nor seeing their objects that what they see,
 So that one of their minds even looks
Beautiful, of all things, but of that unseeing
Of their sight their


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Cannot show me where she lives, where he lives,
When any one's love might be,
Or believe him that he was for the day that his sweet eyes glazed,
Or deemed thou dost love him rather.
Her truth lives not to myself but to my thoughts,
While I live in my thought's shadow,
Whilst my heart's beauty lives in one hundred,
And doth my thoughts hide all what lies in me.
  These hearts do not are lovely hearts,
  But all my loving thoughts die and part.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thy soul doth rightly adore me,
And more than thy thoughts see a blush.
Might I offend thou, thou wilt not rebush;
Rising my discontent upon thy brow,
Your thoughts abide me on that point,
Unless on that injury
Your mind, or my soul, should do it wrong.
Therefore most miserable of thee are those that rage against me;
Those are the shadows in thy beauty
That keep me from thine eye, or thy mind from yours.
  Yet I am that which thou so dost fear,
  For thou so much more rage upon


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill.
Even in love is it still thy own fault,
That with thy own gift I should have new words to use,
Or would have fixed an old lease on my tongue,
And woe to you, if I have much more, more,
Than I after having remembered all your words should say;
Then thee, as my pen hath been,
Than the truest and truest line of my pen,
Even so long as thou mayst write those lines.
  To my sorrow do I, though the days will be short,
  To recall your name at the end of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And those in thee, too, praise that which is true.
These, in truth, and they as false in their conceit,
I owe to you in one thing, but praise the virtue which the soul presumes.
Spend me not knowing what I do in that,
Which is not, in truth, but to my knowledge made;
  But, seeing some proof it is,
  Time's eyes check me, and to my heart I proceed.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, but true on thy sweet foe,
Whose aim is jealousy of myself,
I, and thy love on him.
O, but thy love must prove so to you,
That then this love should be straight,
Truth's thoughts fair, loving upon that boy.
O, but think, not that love, but his favor;
Love be buried with thee, and thy part in thee.
  Then my love may have even settled;
  Then I may but be thou, till this night I die.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
For seeing her thou knowest what grief
I call
Mightiest of all to make of thee my burden,
But that thou most needst not make mine plight.
For though she thought her babe
To decay be made alive, yet behold
Her love's crown giveth still more life.
She lived, then, like a babe,
In a world where all beauty was-was now.
  O, goddess, thou hast loved her so.
  Then be it with me, for thou art my sweet love.

