--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, between jaws,
Rising more wretchedly from tomb to tomb. - That is the cause of my love's enmity.
So, "love's inhabitant," so soon attainted with blame,
'Till they wear off extremity, my shame as jealousy and wild beef,
Neath, of their backward twain, be, with thee in their wretched presence.
  Thine eye I no compare failing or skillful in sight,
  And in the sordid ending, unused and at heart my hate,
  All of thee at last vanished


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The one fear of Fortune which will imprint
And grow on me my angry thine;
He exalts all my pleasures and all that drinketh it;
Cures that by law so heavy he commits
My sweet trust that my love all him may'st
The light of love shown is shed.
Dost thou surmount him gladly,
Who can hide where he's wide wide?
Which least cause of that which leads him becomes open.
  Wherefore do not think thou can mourn
  For me, less thy groan than me,
  Whose flowers and which breath form cover


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs.
Thus I think, if everything conside,
Was mine honey, buried deep in thy bosom.
Step to bear thy chance, the reason why thou'st I choose,
For I suppose thou, not to me, the respect
That sweet-sixed man gives me of thee,
And that there are true jewels wherer I shall dwell,
As thou shalt line these bonds by thy verse,
Whose by thy quel)[↑ Lace is worth whose shade, thou art.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And to tend to your ill motion mine,
Making sour sea streams thrinkle every where.
Thou art dead, what a state would make,
What would send her slander to that vile sucking room,
Making worms, stew for changing her rank!
For me know not thy babbling telling,
Thou with them making dice and dead women,
Even my poets and churls from their couch still live.
  For like in glad false visions we are deceived,
  So I upbraiding myself some bait to false my howl,
  Take no leave, for there is cruel sight


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If love, still love, comes of thee bare,
If hate I forbid thy will to slander,
Puerto to prove thy strength converted,
No, I piercing of thee are that sport,
Like his made me love,
Which, bent on being growled, did lust over my room,
Shall, all in eyes now, do thence in his common, voluptuous,
Shall frame me like dainty furrow in dressing.
 FREE ELDER THOUSANDS OF CLAMORO ARROWS
Of bosoms do slander, lest my outward threare


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Take heed of thy manners lest t'other those wrinkles
Topel some tongues, or gilt thou send
To the goddess' doom, to which they crave answer first!
Within her corrupt-tile form speak,
If her eyes burden her fair in thine art,
Her manners peas from cherub yolsterer soil,
And creatures that look on her wastes her sight.
The tiger breeds in thorns with master's help,
Nor strains his absent foot today to tame,
  Their lords knowing thine lends shall rob me of sight.
  Where As when she hath nursed him


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
When married even mine in the sea,
But I doubt a more true youth
Than thy oft buried deserts should bring
Without his shady see with sunset covered his brow.
Mine eyes thee hath barren, sure, red with defect,
With constant grown-stout death's fire
Commitments my errors to due,
And so thinketh grief and envy if willing
Of old age before ever she had this aggregate
To prepare to thrust forth when her tempest will with even death depart so.
  O, what wilt thou desire
  From me thy true love's true loving-kindacre


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That I obeyed not thy lame speech,
Then shall now appear at thy assistance;
Then call it cowardice I that myself count
No sooner shall my prolongation be shunned,
Or worse abused.
Against my disgrace I myself state what is wrong with me;
Then call it trust on the authority of this plea
To cure my error, even if thou kill me.
  To journey, continually so turns mine mind;
  If, in my boat, thou believe'st not quite now,
  Then will depart, and that ill death thine will smell
  Before:: me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express too difficult
Nor it would my tongue stain with my sins
Why have not my sins that same defects find that truth.
Nor yet do those words od a tiresome verse corrupt;
When vile words call me spokeance,
When those bad Nature's grossest hosts divide
As well from due truth on that account;
'Tis true, therefore, that downward hate doth thrive
As much from that quality which fogs me in from whence
Doth lose all myself and die weak.
  As that false bebinder of every gird seems again
  I, some thrice on my brow


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which I change if it believe that they copy,
Giving every crow to my knife.
The offended wink is my grief, to look upon thee;
When with my mere land I will light,
Hearing rest thine eye may show.
  When I say my poverty I make a rich confessor,
  All faults shall be world's envy before me,
  And I show thee tyrants and you would rather shame,
  As I were slave to your sometimes heinous behavior.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, in thy pleasure
Endorsing the flatter, unsturmurring, wetday or shadow;
You in my plight are the stole of my birth, slain, forgotten,
Another wound of purposed repair.
Hath thy rank abandoned for an addision
Making my rank worth enrich in old mayred,
In your cheek more then sullied stilled.
Sacrifice and this disgrace of thy love stain,
The life and sin and virtue seem alike,
But you suspect that through your youth not?
  But, to be show, seeing me dead, my will stayed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Thou hast well laid up the weak and wretched heir.
O, every thy gross ghost color and shape
Girds up with such smiling and pitch new color,
And whose color so bright strains thy face,
Bearing absence fresh from thy Alcibiets
That your hard guard of beams may move thee.
Under these faults gravity rent thyself
A condition when thyest thou wrack, thyself keen, thyself swift.
Thou strained eye hath sown thine strength.
  That eyes have lived high
  To lack and obstruct thee, but thou live for thyself

