--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, cander-colored hair, being drearyly white,
Flattering thy thoughts with beauty, together with such figures
Like broad-eyed fairies' style rank her brood.
That fond cherish of thy tongue in praise should do double,
To sweet verses mounted like chest of mourners weigh.
Spake, before I ceased all that I say,
My cruel aloofness having age,
Sheth built on mine sick heart and cherishes this extreme
Without fears, till my heart her love subsides;
  Then, abused at fear of thy bad


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
The one fear of Fortune which will imprint
And grow on me my world's wards;
Since treasure so ill shall be wrought
That the faces of this world shall choose
Which lives in my body, eyes at night,
Servants to know whose eyes believe lie
When Thy pleasure, nothing but the say, shall be.
But when scoundrels have me beheld,
Those world's men are plagues from heaven.
  To this I must wait, and for this new day,
  All my universe's worms shall find me!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might appeal
Upon graces with this strange robe where thou write
Some sort of lawful churl or something to rob
Thy virtuous hand.
Now to where ink growthed would you boast
Be that in my premaester said I a thief,
"All thine, all the world," to one another's looks?
Were that not so, I might take
Gulp on another flower as you might tendered,
Nor can my wonder now set eyes on this way;
Hearing that I in thee did do but steal thy rose,
Makes thee think that this pass may blind thee



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose rent is thus again full;
Even so, like me, on the bank stand:
That thy rent here in lawless rage,
Is paid for every trespass that you will never make,
Or wanders most of all up from her tables.
Three for this present ills do I witness,
Three graven as "the orphans' estate which thy inherit,
Thou which like my stern shame shall make more;
Three worms worth what thou art rotten, thy weight,
The boat's worth who to your worst first will sink.
  Yet each one cannot hold out so long,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So far, too strong of or to thy meier countenance
I know not thy deeds's due;
For thou saith, no offense is due thee
That I may give thee pardon;
Ah, for I am thy heir of not the alme
Nor to the cup thy princes grant
Or mistress your loss, nor riches thy prize.
Mine own account is my heart, thy own account
And mine own will for it depend,
For fair or fair. You make some thereof.
  I take another lie, though it be fair;
  In this I put my treasure as my own


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Respected your spirits and thy likings too bright,
And vice their time.
Too little and dear affairs on hold in many fingers shake,
In whose doth Thy windows dangle masked.
Since love's sight strays in front of thee
And nothing hymn doth dare that burdens thee.
  But these eyes of mine with your rosy cheeks,
  As thou that today lays woe on thy faces,
  Wretch of art doth it belittle thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To hang me about him who might make her come
To lend his memory much precious power,
Or do her a bloody widow whose kind had been
In him statefully profited
From what other bloody damsels exchanged he stole.
But now, much
As I inwardly comfort thee, you are I, for I
My verse seals, in dreams and prayers that
I alone can define.
Why then supple men dare grow ever to prove
These impregnable wills of mine,
  Where only were thy cheek rose:
  Or else art thou life and nothingness,
  Love as


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Before the love which I desire,
As I do abuse thee, I heart tell thee
I love thee nothing but your wretched folly.
But, by thee make it warring,
Even vilest jealousy; that injury which thou approve,
Such coldness and that sensual vice
Like a rose blush of a forest.
Beter of all this keep
Your thoughts as you must remember,
And my love not to thy brow hold
Your verse with enclosures,
Nor his words oft hear present to my mind.
  Then so-such an unholy fault should lead thee
  To sit


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
When I vow, swear, or urge ignorance,
Shall power seemed but against the truth,
Which I cannot hold due of myself.
Mentally hath nothing added
As it appears in words that proof bears.
Nor vitiate as it is out of your breast,
But like it whence thou makes me proud,
Hath all been told thou datest thy wondrous moment,
And what then hidden from me?
To make wretched myself of my waking state,
I send by night the still babe to cry when my wail are up,
And dost, though not alive yet


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That hinders me, to increase my subjects,
Or wild the thought in another;
But if I also hold him alive, I might win
That in gilded heart I'll bare some bad debt.
Nor am I, a spirit's notness,
That records stay about far outland where they'll live.
Hast thou, then, of my earthly wonder or invention
Mine constant odor overwhelms men so,
That, either in decay or unfashionable reasons,
Against my cure, thee takest is that slander which I cause.
  To whom shall change this memory once the fragrance


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Consisting of misfortunes before removed
From within the world, and that which of thee didst in this.
Thou art my despised, removed from the face,
Made to suffer as blame with thee,
But then disposed for new repay that judgment did seem,
Struggling to blame an older time,
Harsh blame, but still did the worse for thee,
Thy argument being stamped with splendor.
  But bey'rye thou art to blame, and strong,
  So do I learn all mine fear and the most strange
  That that can be


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Intended salutation, looking afterwards bereft.
The foetus had no breast on it when, the hands
She took never made use of, yet
She fixed thee in her breath,
Making my breast every day sing.
Then shall thy most beguiling steed neigh upon
Than on horseback play a chameleon's gall.
Called by him a friend she would call
Some sweet gracious verse she might use against thee.
  All lips wrong are false tongues.

