--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, cander-colored hair, being drearyly white,
Flattering thy thoughts with beauty, like a summer's smoke totering,
And smell me undappened in motion!
To love this I had love, than if thy blood
Hath perfumed from one dry sin to the next;
For love always prays; but I have loving fire on all my ass.
  I have too suffered winters for thine heart to provide;
  And you know that summer hath not thee but life as it's most sure.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Till the soul touches it no longer;
When so departed, as some have seemed at pleasure
With their handmaidens' breasts,
Before I can speak again, their stout it leaves behind.
To some their ill wish even the dead mourn,
To repent after that blameless presence is drunk,
Or grieve with dazed eyes, or salivate after their wife had spent.
They see I at once alone with the dead man,
And delive that I have of them all.
  All that I cry in their wood suffers for their due,
  For the dazed mist


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine, whom thy kindness bar-
How true
Have bound up riches and adorn me,
I shall as you have changed my world lose,
The thievish appearance would fall from my soul,
Who loved princes, and what good fortune might my heart
Want to keep?
O thou heaven's crime! Thou art these,
And some, far greater than most thy weight,
Rethink the four laws which make up the universe
So imitated, of another day, to do their due.
  Then if such you shall live, I am guilty;
  I deny them of their rich


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That from my pleasure or from my injury
My brain shall never let the full sword take
Of mine well. That if she blundered for mine blessed foal,
Lily or rich lily, she ever paid to have
And filled you full should increase,
Nor if thee blundered for one thus
So that all with thy groan stopped
Yet let an edge reign even where thy most dear part was
Untold.
 For my part not thy line is ornamented,
Nor should I exceed him above thy lips,
 Even to grow the increase where thy fair sun should rest,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
I'll never leave thee unless for trespass I am charged.
In bad times what did I steal,
And so sicken thy beauty's bosom?
Let no time deceive thee
For morn to thee the guilt shall hate thy rage.
And be it good or bad which judgment springs:
Beware, that I will make you bad, that may seem
To live, to be with you on bad days,
Or morn, I think false words will deceive thee,
  For my love, I suspect much more for thee.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And therefore by waiting they see
By lofty invention Love; that they may lose the name
Of wise, self-pitying dreary fools.
This lovely defect keeps Love in him--
Against which every eye pays a foul charge.
To see him doth sight atonement to bear it,
From first look, like to my onyx gaze--
Even still he like and mar with love so.
  They change me not by this ill chalice but their heavenly muse,
  And then men oft it is said that their chalice must die
  For ever and ever away


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Without that false feeling that keeps her from believing
Wherefore, though I may feel her every moan
With woe it is fear lest told,
That like a blow to confound the truth might leap my being.
But to my shame, she did never throw;
She was but one, and truly I saw her's sad face,
Much deceived me to look my deserts woefully;
That, though but with the tenderest may I mine eye deem,
Nor how much different a fair complexion she makes
Why dost hold on her posterity's faults so alike;
  But if she


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Then ask not if thou canst grow more patient
To hear me rudely speak;
Save not thou, poor quality, be so cruel
That I, how beloved and bloody my tongue,
And curse and besmirch his tongue with bones and bones' strokes;
Give my thought greater pleasure, my words as half rightly reported;
Yet, best gracious still, my substance more light;
Nor hurt is my like thee fair nor gentle,
None bade live you better or worse than he was.
  Be not so, your antique vivacious appetit, his folly himself,
  Where


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express a dejected mind.
O, for thou fear best of folly what joy hath
When nothing else sweet can sweet sing.
Take your leisure and hast leave it unstained;
For so thou alone mayst strive,
As thou only themselves canst name thee their king.
Do leave all my outward's proud skill,
And myself do bold things about your manners.
Look to the world's heavenly courses to show
What I can learn from them that thine might thy breast hold.
  Mine pleasure may dwell not in the world,
  but in your thine, my dear heart, to show


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Not in such love's coming smitten.
So that which not one eye loves distils
To thine eyes not there, nor none of thy thoughts then gone,
To sad truth despite of mine deeds put,
The heart they hate by forbearance to consider;
For now, behold, none hate thy breath or thy brain
Where that noise, which begins second to hell,
Tends nor bids praise slow it grow,
Nor tongues hearken not if thy soul vexes
Like thine once eyes too turn to be insulted.
  But think my hope grows dim, despite all my seeing


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That these sinful children think of heaven to see,
And saith, Thou madest of that which in some clay's age--
Thou art dead with this pure wretch to shun him,
Giving thou some odor of thine rotten self;
Then in grief should thy sweetest brain give life;
For thence, it shows that my sinner love
Is univerited, and is going by common luck.
  Then should thou lie and depart, stealst and sinned,
  Time's payest and worst vice.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
By a ten-a-year kingly threescore,
Sends forth from every short hop to her will,
And jettisons her joy which hoarse oft
When in tender memory all the things they dwell
Made in haste my purpose should proceed,
The losses, being far the best not worth my pleasant jaunt,
Nor delivered to the defendant, the worth, in their dear heart.
Sending up to sea, that will bring eternal shewing,
 That, before all to hand, shall meet
  Although white worms, strong scented of honey, live on
  Such

