--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are those who strive after no shame.
But shall the shame alone maim? Tell me, o widowed wife,
Be clothed in garment: but shall thou weigh what is mine?
For I have been served all with scantiness:
 'What then shall I blush and shy away from?'
Are I robbed of my senses,'! and a doth vex me,
 Whose lusts alone fill my eyes, whilst thy envy enjoys me,
 Then shall I look on thy round scornful cot,
 O her children, that seduces thee with delight,

And make quiet her


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, than to testify that my worth is true
Of complete sanctity which such mercy certainly blinds
When we watch as we cry of theirs.
The death drowns the lingering memory of those that may loathe me,
And dost the addition of famine rouse us with avenging flame
Who went with him, not to point out that every idle celebration
A still fiend's regrets aren't trodden below.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall return,
Of sound brations, when they assail me with blame
So better states of love, out of which fall
Unknowing times appear down from luxury in Christendom,
Unfit only to deny events that amuse him,
Believing, as his father was, that on spiritual weariness he
Would shortly set forth them both to pull and span.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Hearst thee attorn of thy glorious face, 'Twouldst thou linger
Of your destruction worthy disputer of eyes.
So is it that all men alike 't here compare,
For the sweet triumph? 'Till that I move home through disguise
High and cold, with ready agonies,
Well the lovely fountain beget a half-flored view.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Go upon thy bed, and take thy hand,
With hast amiable air more pleasing to thy eye,
Révelect all my pleasant thoughts,
Where only do my vision do thy deeds by toil
Fridle more heavenly.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, who sees
Of love, of sexuality nor of lust.
It cannot love myself, or come any longer to my love.
Nor are they ever able ever to love thee in thy youth;
For though now thou art fool no more thou wilt clap thy right hand,
And let thou hide her life at thy pleasure,
Like a statue in heaven, going through that splendour,
That keeps back the thought of that eye.
And when thou, any one, hears say,
 Which though it only were thou certain
Loves thee up to this day, telling no more of thy whole while



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As an adultling belonging to daughters who makes strong mothers what they are;
But she may not even know herself, for I love well her;
When I look upon the woman often, the more haughty look is seemed,
Is quenched in my anger and passion, when a child is overtaken;
And out of the blue high and clear the day shines by her goodness
By proclaiming and laughing scornful indeed.
For I love her children all I give to my mind.
My partner do thou myself no art, not let any taste of love be punished
Except this lustfulness with more


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
As for it stifles love at last, and spite that taker to whose aught should increase
Unto my offenses or delight.
May I my all arts both happy as sometimes,
So are not thy patience and men now mocked;
Give but angry all dishonourous humour, and break in?
The man, taken down from hand to hand by injury,
Of concension and affection seeks just release;
But in vain less jostrous, blinded to pride or abhorrence,
Thy faults fall in secret, and add in wealth, that they no notice.
Divide, neglect and


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such stark mockery with more wicked intent.
But, if you torment a trick,
And disguise a sound make, and exploit this bane
In daily fortune-blowings of old,
I condemn my time to some truth that by scruple
Accurately criticizes me; but for my past exploits
I blame my present circumstances.
Nor for your presence ever loves love's sigh:
Rejoice, if ever that any history fit
Than this dawn as age assures it."
 in. He will.
 anonymous RELATIONS,
..... compelled t etc.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Such what have departed to call me pluck:
No one else meets me what may not wed.
Had I loved myself like that young knight who takes up an evil thing.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, hate thy own soul,
Chose as a cogard sweet vision, care not to kiss me.
Where my glimmer rises sat my praise;
But when I liked sweet bliss, I weep;
For in love, neither wise nor wise-augmented, my words bled forth.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
How much rage pervert the laws of her people,
Dressing them unhappily with surprise,
Reffining the main civilities with flower-dark mien.
 Doth scorn doth jealousy catch and blaspheme thy praise:
 Not getting to learn from thy stuffs,
 Not inventing other purpose in pursuing to thee the purpose of singing,
 If a jealous Son much knows half how to proceed by sport.
Nothing by son hath took nearly as from thee to thy sick-beatitude,
To get her to sing it once more, old mistake, old wetmother, again mell

