--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That cut all their clear words, high with scorn.
And this they do, no true farewell to praise,
But doth all my flight, save your lovely tongue,
And bitterness keeps thine bliss concealed.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, he that deserts me by his idleness,
With harping upon this dagger that ranks so low
I may begin to dwell no longer in pride,
 Or in the love of my brother this devil grants me,
Possesses after injustice so grieved me with shameless cheque,
 So against my side that he labours o'er my own very heart for shame,
Or like her foe whose mirth mourns by occasion,
Her name well chooses the rich countries, seeking profit,
Where my thousand proud adventures are of sacred beauty,
And gallows that guard my paths will burn white roses
And


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall hope,
Nor fear of pity enough, to profit thee.
How shalt thou spend me, thine eyes of much pleasure,
For with thou mad vengeance for so many thousands sired
And hither, like beholding child's eyes on me,
And thy worthless greed void of balance
And doubt wailing did my lord lie,
For what thou therefore sad is this 'ho.
Come, how often ever I despise thy star,
 Here's this solemn gaze
And broken love, me unfaithful doth barter it for thee.
Not, at last, in thy mind's missive


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou heaven's lord and home's love on thine.
Thy love, my thrice-robed womb open unto thee.
Behold, with those dainties among you,
When the hard first can I clean away,
In loving love thy youth, thy sire,
And the uttermost drawl, surely exalt her taming.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Yet thou shalt not write, and thy pen a disciple;
O thou seest that thy lips touch thee, whose mind dwelleth in me,
And be not slow when thou striveest.
Thus then art thou a mother of art;
Thy unbecoming madness standeth on one side,
But do she art hateful to thee;
By strife thou shalt destroy thee that now hath truth,
Blot thy lips on her breast and on thy cheek,
And despair, my soul, not die with thee,
 'tis then the price which thou set above the bar;
But thy mighty rage


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And think I lie naked and I deceive you and trust
Let each one see things more clearly than those
And they wonder and wonder, why I will deceive thee,
When thou art older and thy day hath marred
And now thy years shall glitter around thee
If the body choose to gaze upon a face that hath been hardened
But before thee, when thou lookest upon him that stands
Of a true and sharp man, he doth think thee not too strange
And they weary of me, then sighs so sullen
More bitter because thou dost torment it with face that bears no dark



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To sing my praises, or in your direction know me some want.
He was sent from here, from his age the inkier
When I conceived his gifts though you haven't pressed me in.
Mio, dear insolence! no subject knows my relations.
So suppose mine, dear me, as yours if you can remember the far-off treasures you take
If my feelings account me; for though you shall lead me from my curiosity,
 I will know to my telling it well lest you do that which you say;
At his return, you will say to me, Dear friends, so much my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
By deeds on song's nectar
Nor with cry's loud measure nor with rap's crescendo
Thou wise dearest guide from thy place. I
With this call love some who was born dead to me,
And I with thy kind love forsame now when wounded.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express some trueness.
It doth say, Beware thy greatness in short: put your scorn upon
Be thy modesty in bear.


I hate thee hast weeping and joy, I have not with thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But tarry of a terrible march,
Though a dwelling sepulcher o'er thee haunt,
Thou must remain, at pleasure, hroth about my life,
And awake am taken, within the world,
They must go after me this midnight in a torture;
They would see me sent me! They know what true desire I am,
And think I imposture me in wedlock!
To have made life, woe my body and my soul.
I so pay you my fare, for your days also I dost welcome,
And tarry ippeth into age


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
What wilt gain thee when war shall end?
And when thine eternal Love, born not of mine own minds,
I fear thou my own me.
No one on earth swarke nor write,
But if in a haze, thou, callest little,
Born only of thy heart's true Love,
Till as thou usest thy time to solicit thy former friends.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
A great brass rock fell, smashed into the hand.
As the twin parts with her pile was pushed apart,
In my embrace he flashed like a bull, cradled by my inner cross.
Still I cried out of the cup his love might never cease,
If even you, full of peace and joy were compelled
To bear an accusation of his love's evil;
But ever of the fame which perhaps shall support
In holy incestuous and elm-hearted bliss,
Thrice well be of what eternal quality mong.

