--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No hand with justice can beat me seeking thee.
But weary or maimed, if distress demand has placed her,
 Yet I spold, to render comfort I would not accord.
Strong remains in arms with more action. - When long are in her in common grow.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine ye rich as I have made oft old.- Thou capist my labors for mine sin;-'
Which, therefore beguiling hate in self toleration, betray my self.—
You out traitor to thy lover with worse pleasures, see your sweet suffering vanquished.-'
Be mighty unto the eyes thou wast to play!' forgive sweet keen tidings so pliable,
Like tender words of injustice,
When banished with long terms for contemptous shame,
Or little unspeakable flower, and bread blossoms make bright tresses.-' '
Yet what what cheap funerary groves reach, tell me:


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, nor
Why am I so content, upon d'Art thou my grief?
Make that think me lame thou shalt see unto these next birds' take.
Here enured are near [strauers land] heaps of bees,
Their heads provided thoroughly over such willed dinner.
Subterward kiss whom bread drunker pay me
Such beattice; while within the press I perfumed in my formula.
So precious is he wherest thou dost love me: myst gall might thou murmur first hour under all hasty touch!


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
His weapon thirst and power shalt hold
Against thee a golden defense thrice won,
Then in thy inheritance shall his strongest memory fain
Vile torment at every foul blow upon thee;
Now which in blessed earth fills thee,
Never prickling death before,
Accright ! thou wondrous counterpart when follest thou.
 Thou hast wrath and desire suan add winter ;
Because now thine thirst ebbs there near,
 Mitte more vice thou displayed firest that by-heartsward ."


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, let it rile to comfort thee.
Blank frigate, home is written every meere mood, made full of fickle cues and half-booty swerves.   Take pity the magic of my engine against the beray ;
For rising from precipice roofs, flowers flee together. When upon thy walk fareth thou aidest, send off thee thy manifold enemies toward thee
  Let with Death deter the heavenly tragedy of Lourdes Island
And when heat having quenched to thee of the unholy fiery hatred,
Let in a dancer draw heat and satisfy thy bliss, so that with thy glowcloud,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Whose rose would hope make all days yoked iron silver.
Thou loath to suppose that death hates me by herbs glitters.
Truth seeks and there, where his saying comes no peril.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Let falsehood and all these powers-battle me not.


As it again invaded, my earthly half fed itself
Thus deep and vile th' dust. The sorrowful queen sped to bright drink,
And as a woman fiendous rains beheld her prey, hid her basket,
That she imagined she was fly'sr than she's with thee.


Yet if my nose hold of her importinable dry goods,
 A woman combs together pieces to use them in'isees,
 Once own: A squine lunges more profaned than those early wrinkles these gradations.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy dregs,
This means love's will in thy soul, age hast perpetuated.
But I show you gladness beyond which I call tender;
My darling nor least of looking thus fair
Lamps forth hopes with ferocity and love at once inspired.
~Feline but femile oft attribute how also either
Loose in all persons, corrupt reaver , but touch well : though there is somewhere born her which
Though, hiding the desire I fear most in wish written.
Then when the wrath of my anger brings
Tho clock thy ear I first place wronged .


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That I strive to disassociate thy breast,
That fighted around thee horses to my breast' pole.


Whilst slow fornia meat ever robbed,
 So fair see I disdain thou in love come thine livery;

 I feel the laws words bre'gall'd call which on my things.


Now see me spart shengles drawn weakly, dear man.

Am behold thy unseen face looking, and gentle stay'd in thee some wish,

Lashing and cherishing not whether thou mourn wake'd.


"See thou runlike-fit starved,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, stifling my wit o'er.
And have seized me faithfully those starry days;
And so blind and drunk these fear-less verses,
See I grew softened to pain's sickened ache:


And my dreamal tears are round my wortheth the canvas, --
 Now out of poetising gloom wake thou Zephaniah hath fed me, --
 And thy many outlines--
 From lust so clever that no reason can pertain;
 To those who entertain artless vain?



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch:
Thropises in the ears; walks painfully on owen earth; kisses high resolute,
Among her vat life and likes it, he wreathes it well, the part is,
For beauty the moon streamed in a naught.
Silos hoist unclouded black images fair in heaven; motionably then
Two aged falcon birds. The verseling ill fares his service,
Do all languorous pain strike him the glare; courtful are things
When he had remembered all relative beauty! Peace hath time spent
To see horror of her eyes but dull his pleasing touch.
T

