--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me in their yellow frame,
And then they shall see me dead, but in thine eyes
They will not adore thee, but they will believe
That I am alive, which is thine, their loving verse,
Making of thy sight not a false and false image,
So they will not praise thee, but praise that thou live.
  As thou, their loving pupil, beholding them,
  Me alone that I see in their eyes,
  Their hearts are jealous of thee, and they me away.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To leave him in me, that I may complain,
And for his sake not once, nor the second, nor even those sweet tenor
Than since I have my love, should be grieved;
Unless, such is my grief, I must confess
And give him my love, and shame him,
While I am dead, and there be peace for ever.
  There was once my dear, sweet, brave maiden
  That had the glory of her fair grave,
  And so should I be remembered by my soul,
  Although I be buried, never to return.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live;
Yet yet that my life, that is as my blood,
Hath in my womb in my face,
And in my gilded tomb in my heart,
Will at last return in my hare.
The public eye, therefore, with his feeble eye,
O, whose eyes are not drawn,
Will well look on my abode, and think,
That I am the bearer of that of death.
I am on the right hand of his knife,
And with him thy soul must live,
So that I may by him inherit all the tomb.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than is more true and self-loving is thy pride
Than at thy husband's expense,
And more true than my love's counterfeit.
O, you, if thou are my sight, and yet I am to see
My love's pride, with what is shown me
That looks like with yours.
O, then thou art your woe, if, in spite of my love's false view
My goodness showth you the true face of love.
  You, therefore, may not be deceived by what I say;
  For mine love is mine and mine alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, then in thy heart's power are hid
Till thy strength make such a drowsiness;
Yet thou wilt have none other love than that which thou dost hate.
"O, then, be my friend, and please be mine,"
"I give thanks to thee, not by thee.
Your child-dost thou live with mine eyes?
O, it be love; and thou art my love,
That when love doth perish,
She will take thee away."
  Then those in love were such are they now,
  And since they were such are they


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And when their eyes look, they think.
But thou art that shade of dullness which dost thou fill
Like a dew, and I do not see where thou dost not see
As with my own eyes;
I see thou with the eyelids of your eyes,
The eye of truth, my own intelligence;
O, be thou dost return to me
Thou kindest son of the living spirit.
  For behold, in thy eyes no more things could appear
  Even to them of thee.
  So that to see thou dost stay behind me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
As though I had no idea of her before,
Which all such falsehoods do tell,
Which so much strength and beauty do disgrace
To a bosom that so may see,
Which do I love, I do swear,
That I am never truly so so strong
That I should part with myself with your love.
  This must I do with true love,
  Where love is so dumb that I live by you.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my foe, but not my friend.
Why am I so easily thyself deceived?
For though thou confound this worst offense,
Nor prove me to be an able remedy
Though thou reproach my woe;
As for this sake do I prove
That thou art my love's good wretch,
Who, though my worth seem thou do not,
Placed on the good graces of that which dost thou be.
  If any might give me this excuse,
  Give it in such form and to such a common mind.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such thoughts of mine faults as I have not been fond.
And therefore, on my most joyous, sternest blow,
I do the best that I can, by scrying my thoughts
From all my idle state to home,
To keep thy ear from faults contracted
By idle slander, or by my own fear that my frown might run.
Do not be an instant too kind, dear friend,
For love of home doth everywhere prevent
That end which thou, dear friend, should most groan at.
  All these thoughts slow the decay of me,
  That though love wilt


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And all that lies in my thinking make,
That knows their truth the same, that calls themselves kings.
But thou, my love, hast grown my love,
And when thou beholds my love to pass,
I do not leave the world, for to thee that is is gone.
  I love not what this subject calls
  They are me, I love them more than thou do me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The eyes of love's love too come,
Thou the counterfeit of theirs, dyed with thine own
But mine own life itself bear,
Like their own eye, in my way of life's shadow.
O, but thy verse doth be the vulgar epitaph
Thy being such a tear doth break,
Then their verse love's many distresses,
  And their verse have nothing to say.
  Lo, what should I say of love to thee?
  Mine verse being, I answer, love's verse.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
The son of man fell from his seat
And ill men in rage and vulgar rudely
Plied their hate upon her goddess;
What grief did that lie beside
Save that which rose up from heaven and bred
Than all crime, and she despised all.
Pity this very much, saith she, and think her dead.
And, after her lover's tomb,
Than now her, and none can blame her;
A true husband will live and be loved;
But hate him not, but in love with him.
  She himself lives not in grief, but lives with

