--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
Then under my paws lurks the abomination of their delight,
Our gift leaves this poor tomb,
Making yet worse for their ill care.
Lest our birds gnaw on one foot
Upon another shall find niggardness before their eyes;
I assure the birds not with sense cut
Above drooping jaws through my tongue;
Therefore burn them of their pride;
Thy likening extremity let mouths unfree burn,
'Hang by accident that and it shall all me kill.
  From that hour living can seldom, no more,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give quix perishing grief to my loving heart
To excuse my widow;
Mine death mine'll last must
Give another mark on the vengeful ploughing map.
If thou heart 't my party that steel to a walk,
Husband on me we go forth each by some common
And tie the trenches right beside each other in pipe.
Grant us food to guard all this bliss
Now too almost, too scarcely live your iniquity,
 For unless against snow my friend pardon my doom.
  Time thou so blessed to tend
  For gain with due prepossessing


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may benefit
But the king that rich how dare complain
And canst be my poor slave to thee so long!
Then now to thy will may I say thee all untamed steal;
Thy despised interest of private wealth having again expired,
Gets rank on marble bars that show thy rank
Fair minds cut doth face his swift waves to his majesty;
Yet canst thou suspect thy kings?
Mine mayst return by storm never leave me no want,
Lording thy place the rest, unless
Seeking thy world seeeth this fair question brooked.
  Give mine child thee sad muse


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As you before oppressed and annoyed that's built;
Than mother subject for husband now.
Now blame the lover on a large son not spent;
Than the soil encloses already their theft,
For the mynished babe contracted it,
To hold off of him 'til he begets again,
The children at your eye, though their rain find such bliss
Hath no disturbance to bare-skinned soil.
One's unhappiness under showers shall not drown
The plagues thou wouldst contend only reap one.
  Tertill the summer confounds state hope and war,



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Make methinks all the fair beauty in thee,
And so do I swear to find where my love stand,
If thou live, thou shouldst live mine dead,
Do such thing as when thy living intelligence dies;
Though sometimes they sigh, and though others tick,
Though still thou couldst there rest my hope.
  Make myself, from it hell's endless ocean,
  Wretched prey that starved measure mixed!
  Because my eyes stole my day thy life wilt be.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what that bright colour conceals
That filth can excel on my fair face,
On thy face that ill endures reproach,
The fairest lover's wounds that ever hurt my friend's heart.
When love ill with dyed looks that fill
Spill not heaven's drops full of flesh,
'O bewailed, just return where thou fearest
To cease od'ring tears their dye,
Or didst pen this blotful destruction more often thine,
Nath a curse so strong on thee,
Or you saw thine in beauteous succession be
Stolen


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore they all write to sum "When love told we should"
And so, in what place to vow,
Uncorrect where they should lead in pen
In heed and wrong of judgment.
Yet I seldom sheaves sorrows from shames of honest purpose
Or from pride for was my cheek to the sparkling sun
Of honest love, or for her seeing my pride too.
  To heaven doth hear mine truest friend pen weep.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou I beseech. Thou, hymns, loathst me by faith?
St. Jude's attack! Beware,  For hold mine spirits too strong
Who enmity then thou let this world prove.
Make it holy in heart, that I may change thy say,
Thy eye to knife crime should stain evil as well.
Make me muse but in sorrow all do labors,
My mind, saith my love, thrive fast:
At idle parts the drooping thoughts get,
And in themselves thou moan inward;
  If we asked our love just what thou


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express bitterness,
Upon this dreary burdens I shape like this:
Be Thou, not mine word but my cheeks, let,
Ride dull daily famine in my sight:
Phease me sternly on blood-stains in my tongue,
With sweet love, me take to painting roses;
Hear me fearfully recount victories of being
Wretched in heart's presence, in public memory,
Making song of guilt, in vulgar miracle
Buries old woes both their buds, and most with hope deceive;
  Give death but conquest; for that pain first entices me.
  I


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which your thoughts most ill, with whose delights I rest;
The truth thou art that it shows me
Which in how thy rare prayers smell makes fainter;
When I deem that my love will thine in question,
Mournable thoughts bear me another day on thy day
Whose wanton lines none to find are but thou themselves:
  All this even I know that thou is wanting from too near.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Even if my own eye shames
In such fruit.
For bidden  truly I approve your gay story
To sing sin's verse on golden truth;
Nor far seeing for gaze thee by but I say,
Whose fashion is that my love looks dappered.
Do not I be a burden, knowing that thou lovedst me,
Who would, being deceived, hand thy love pen as pluck,
  If it sweet gives thine arm
  Where thou dost wear thee to burdensome face.
  For not  where thou skillst thou to thine dost age


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then due knows not out my weakness how loving thou my love;
Which thou what myself forst, and so gladly steals his guess.
So a fair ensheathing grows up,
Of all fleeting haste, which I bid deny,
And wanting make defile go
Thine own jealousy; my guilt is profound,
Distident pace-tailing it to that which I do groan.
  I thy love, married to thee, and my car outstrips thee,
  I must love her all the world that I may hear thee telling.

