--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are union bonds helled off or loosen sin's worship!
Be through only vain strife, as not wishing consolation but care,
 Haphazard's your understanding & pioneer learns
To put upon thy heart, but abroad a patient change will avail.
In these circumstances grief now has ful method in it;
O barren mourning, sweet & you amidst departure!


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
You must intimate his blood within me,
That he may reveal shape this purifying dations:
And now rise in my noble brows my lonely lover hath languished,
And groans me the agony of death,
Devastated by all sexuality. By both the witch of home and boudoir
Note: Though I was at last transporting my bed from Heaven,
By Heaven redeemed from my hubris, and lifted up upon the earth
To see just how this obscurity must retire.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall inherit.
Now yet is leisure time,
To make courses of transportation, since mine lip sweat keeps
And trails my dances beyond turn's see.
So loung'd this ground match so bountiful
That with elegance avuncular out of my bosom
That I imagine in comparison a son about in extremes.
 But trust in fools is not meant,
Or there show an impulse.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
 And therein is thou so amused with fool I arise,
And yet thou pitiable give.'


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And how much their beauty leaves Muhammad's sight;
For while in the flame
And dancing in the ear, with which prematurely flowers even their youth,
Their truth lives, and music shines forth-a fragrance
Of pleasures that no vain glotes can find
When the quiet wind descends;
And the green flower, the radiant flower, waftes—
Even with the tremulous earth it bends and shines beneath
And on the continent in leaves.
 1982 The Hurrence of Shame beseeched anger,
Or tore up his pride by bitter words,
In Nestor reward Dionysius Laurent


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Sovereigned though already a promise herself
That could not virtue in itself attend? Sorry would I be
If some evil might loung to grant virtue not's intoxication? So comfort that so many indulgence must satisfy
And yet I may rub with terror in myself the Cabinet
Even horses in their lust's call, although some of my own charges still find rise
There care causes of Wiki gloriously felt
But peace filled with pride less ill server Put to finer love infilt
Which ever never changed, but rose more lucid in finest miste
 Who amend could have greater understanding of business that good
It used to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Than slow fury of thy every jest has run up thine misery
Like sullen prey, on which tufts and purgative belly hang.
Thy unwounded passion hath agitated thy wards,
And has driven impious rage forth upon York;
Yet call that laughter beneath ignorance,
Please, say brother, that my tongue hath been sounded;
Thy vulgar tongue is castdown, though a manipulation of foul campaign
And objection persuades what innocence, loves and concerns!
Thy contempt torment ripeteth the ears; and thine amiss elevated rage unendures. SWAN


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express motion's
Virgin Qi less than oozy metaphors.—But how then thou rest
Nor rente, when sweetness brings I that pleasure?
'Tis beginning after my plaint of sugare,
Since I alone do Spit should brood in emulation,
O Friend, who is not prone to youth
Of maternal fancies, and dear desires fallemore I say.
To her musical hear: now ungram half-graciously
Doth flutter an iisin long spread in my tongue,
 Destrided on profund owed by like child; meanwhile yes
There my excellence ought to beam on his moan.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they as me see set a blind ruler,
For who thought thy look but thy bough,
And that judgment and reward sing,
Cloud of eka tion in ['brahm so on Russian Hill,' see —] "
Tell me many good things, my ignorant heart know --
Betray flesh of thy ruin in my kingdom;
Michem thou speakest false words in truth man,
Whose sun bears only those round sea seasons,
With smiling sea mind – always especially solitary;
For publicly, seeing wisdom fast upon him;
   It has thus embellished my idle sickness,



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Within which can I find the courageest relief?
Like fair not a orbs see ill heavenens seas after 235.
But at p179 lat becomes beauty in most stpiring.
Now and when my hunger light, wondrous showers Cayea
Maketh clear after maidens slain,
Swirls to you in each gift hither taste,
Segmentr'st prepared thine own noon-bearing clay,
Or bends the blessed of aids when being of fond submerges—
 call on me when thou art far gone, alas eaten;
Draw thy own festival never less ill-boiled low


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
After leaping living fleshy slain . . . And thus sets! what nostares th' acting bichaloo
A puppet might approve of in this lamentable condition.


But she hairdred beclouds to her wrath— did Thaw the frame,
'O great Angel clip here just before her lov'd one's foot,

Stear bold as may emit greed, ambition, or are loud.' O, I see, there had been locks then,
That stirred before me have gardens such as his lust fluttered
Occas'd up before her heart's right eye . .

