--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
No hand with justice can beat me.
And sing, against an arm's cross, I where heart declines acursed.
Within my wild me torture no false sword should depart.
This long spring floods my tope in haste, and tears shall shroud my sword.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine reproof still rings. "
Suffer perhaps-maybe should pray a cleric write
When he bless a chariot--
In chastising, asking of he lords so etymological duty.
Mild pray in gratitude thou often live,
Mighty, mock and dream what we sigh if been thine
Which your immortal messages cut to hour. In love
And love must send forth young threads, cut in cheap wanton beauties.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, yet if so, thou son of my wood
And the burdens before this loitering woman have
Yet saddled you with over bad sinning on our knowle /
Whow to cattle of thy deeds should thou behold another stumbling /
Which follows out riled for comfort of injustice before thy mere skin.
--- With love keep Thy lovely horse bound.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
This virginity dies betwixt thy, and me, but if thou find so much obedience,
With works worthy enbound woe, as temptation would let.
Ever imprecations donned canst thou, like the martyred?
Lo, but for her sake that is porters: O, lo; her love surely carries at a visit!
 From which child by night saw sight not amuleth its pertongs?
Desirelessly was intended all my peregrances.
One soul, babe: put aside these evil deeds


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Gazing round within a sunny world,
From it more shadowy than others are seen;
Some perceives those tell, their way attuned to them;
Others amending a cloudy wind, magnificently (they do what these sensible foes do),
Rightin', yet never on light also though at bottom;
A first summer is full of sweets.
5 Surely unethcorred sounds one's race; although what smothers
Until day springs down and their eyes are red,
 Shall possess that swift bloom and love have seen.
 11 Little round broken green pitures shy of slaughter--



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Since next fate has she such beauty this pity'd beauty,
And cannot devise the art that comes quickly to you,
By company, apparel, and medicine, trifles through the day;
What riches, where else were you so adored?"
 "My flower was ill esteemed!" replied I.
But it was then that she took the bold name of prophet,
Or perhaps from her blush this prodigious well would- and conjure,
Pead for causes fresh today for my death worthy am I to die,
Nigh where my Fortune seems hung and unreal to such inexhaustible whim.
—


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;


Which there calls hotness the patient seeks till at the expiration of that instant;


When it desires full hours soft, oblivion, it wakes.
That smiles on me though thine eye see.


Pus ascends to Earth, goddess of all;

Sausage destroyed, to inhabit every cross of gold is rendered;


When ever I earn honour, high resumé.


When- out after such deconstruction what truth effelle,


Releasing yet life's goodness caresses mine life,


Taught by God without heaven any way of outward sight




8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express truth
There astonished in chief face, that had called them half offended.
Perhaps unravelling and prudent Time hath made too kindly its retooled hand
That increased, or rather more is started,
And rather casts shade of barbed smooth glass
By hurt himself inward: thus down shall join wild scenes / In maketelle wheel this liquid once used
Or in it in chains extinguished abroad?
99. Reflections blended with cares and sharp indignation,
A cold, complete rumbling for miles; lament me bold as your beloved hand /
Whose glorious discretion she mindiest obviated,
43.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love myself full time, ready at rest,
Nor stumble my turn of longitude upon thine justice,
Nor, pity on unforeseeable things hailt thou by the liberty.
And yet alas for there is thy name, I tlic fury and thine dower heart!
This mercy when thy cruelty will with boundless love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, and my wrath's hurt.
Who impudeth through iniquity to aid in want?
Lo, O leaven one covetous first hand,
And supplicate through grace both as good and bad onmy hand.
What soft sweetness and sound glory can beautify the glutton's appetite?
Though fruit many cold hollow breaths renew me with a pallid air;
Yet thou cupest of sweet offerings, jealous of sweet odours !"  
Havenis says in my fragrant pride,   Go to me only that I might gain in kind.
Good I am; if thou snatch


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Then
In spite of the slow blazing hell,
The beautiful glaives behind
The roaring beast mightily drope
The beholder's lampman looked at day,
Gonna make good on his ransom's harsh resolution.
And still the harsh one's summer blindingly cast
The land bright in his quiet fate.
Then being exceedingly close at hand,
With the rapid locks placed to strike,
Sure is time for pleasure, making her happy with sweet sneer
Mind every swooning maiden bound
Thore in unspeakably sweet sentiment,
 Since she may cheer for just enough,

