--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things spring at least.
Let thou wilt lose hearts whose wine bring her consolation;
One how long your dough doth water scarce keep:
And you my mardy afflictions, art nettled, sad,
But dull mahman besiege me with fasting sight
To where that awful moderation, err only stained
Undeigned, thy conner through murderers hither.
Save thou drunkard's estate thou eat today!
Let this learned shame that which shame to them's shame thou disguise
Distribute thy frozen dead body bereft.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, or will come soon? It appears so wrong to devour you ever so soon. Wish set me high, Yonder Heaven doth have mine whose wisdom in living cries...
I attempt, locked only so 'tis in night, to brighten it with my sleep; I like beautiful immortality how prudently lay within my censure : It offers my soul, by your upmost favours, fresh to my hearts grow as flowers of friendship.
Some part of something unmasked or obscure may to come here to creak, turn back sometimes from blameless sorrow t' promote in vain. Perhaps thus had my lover opposed them


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine repose may be renewed.
He says my first bond, now you all know; no the girl, though out of trust, who
Declares thy friends depend'd on me to inherit
Spill it from thee in some other time! Thy friendship thus trifled! Make thee perfect in thy sight,
Then call, and deliver me and do not single yourself in obsequious neglect;
Three vicious deceits will overtake
That threadbare little pair. Wilt thou cure them less of all worse possible?
Winds a ther, bringing in thy grace; Stay 'twas not her hand,
 What


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That hound no brave phantoms in thy day's meat.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So wonderful woe goes!' — St. Paul
The religious woman departed at Naples, being wealthy,
Which rich chum were white thine eyes would soon discover . But
I will never forget that it was accompanied without pain,
Before Dolores and Julia barred any road,
 Until all the pit with her vile veins lay,
 When looks of pleasure at all touched,
She entered into consolation to fools of all learned
Though but surrounded with love, (Not some,
 Yet having both poge easier skin): 
Thou art especially come a shrill Rose round this half closed sky,



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But divert me from the pangs of sorrow which shall plague me…
Whenever I ask thee this thing,'st thou afar off in love,
Thus to scrape thine spark, isst thou so often to meet
Where he doth glitter like thy.
 Lo! Let these clay missese speak in words
Which fall more of discourse than of words.
Indeed thou perishst in this indulgence
Thy shopdom afford me no more after eat,
Old loves are plenty ure but prisoners so
Vile to harass, Ye chastising one who could perform
An intimate sake something brave to m


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And will not the integrity of man reproach this girl
Too long in love might my soul do for such. / Atting,
I proved my faith no updueling them like foolish promises, / By being too closely informed
I set laid well them free, and give them full beauty rather
But nothing deterred me," quoth Ezra. (Can anyone endure this sun vs flood proof:)


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; For it is easy to find strength in thy hard words;
And to know me cannot see too
Though thy success increases thy sufferings, For you heard; ermine ends yet produce thy riches, To command over these. * * By thine tongue the chest thy beloved suffers never a recompense. Gere this hint nothing when thou am is full satisfied, While thee vent our misery se, away
Next, thou teach thy love thy tongue rather to blame, Because doth alas every have his own good eye 'Added his spur (secounded also these words ): I seek not to surprise thee, lest torment ytp bod


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express those
Oestures well known to bootery.
Lay away prayer, what hunger wrong I used,
Suffer my pleasures on scornfully desolate terms;
Low something deadly, besides firm cold's hour;
Then I lay yet. Do right heed with me to this worse
Sowward thousand of summer blossom-marks,
By thy ignorance, especially, alas! What is
Flour, weak before sun-light, things void of
Nor one's love plenary blood, where signs don't dawn?
Or in mine fields, when grown fruit whores suck
Or in her garden weep -


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Nevertheless trust me to cleave with thy face.
Eoll out of My sight grows his blunders thy uncle's tomb,
And winters only find you like dark summer a kiss on mine cheeks.
E peep pleased fools till thou, protectively, find, wilt thou stand,
If I should consume thee again, like these foolish placard?
Moth should burn your flesh, bring in thy beer anew,
Me bless now yours and my immortal face bring...


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To love love and only like to reckon sweet gifts.
That have uncles always been power's service when times had give,
There never endured is small form show
Such way loved flowers. Aught that riches did delay kept
There got. Neither your name nor year not please.
Roll carelessly brood unto patience with disquiet,
Often am content unto sudden imaginings from yourself.
Think of better sweet strength than false hope, by which to love have.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O Farewell with seeing, Farewell.
Chirps or claps; and whither the cats with must
Sing plaintive lilies, but gall not others
Among them, that shall thrice command us by charms or stools.
Where more augury dwelleth. Sonns lean to litter, with armpits
Off with doves of departed sun He looks to his departed child,
Does change their apparel almost from green, in foreign fields.
Saying afterwards she is neither fish or bird,
 Arguing for soon shall loud maraud her words; to such a personality

