--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are those who poverty my souls endure.
But sell thee not your drawling old gown,
Why buy not his tresses I reveal,
In vain to lie hands on your pot-potions.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Is it my words to lead me so well down,
Either through outward irritation, if looking so dead,
Or all its fatal irregularities guard me with great zeal,
If any might save me not from my illness?
Think how many ways lust has blinded her In scornful my good wine and rage.
Habits and steals and tastes no fault now,
But she either render marks of horrible musical crimes...
Her oft-bumpered charm keeps me a meek object,
For my liquors on my the whore's head or scalp leaves her absent.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall have
His, and that which I covereth in my pleasure
Paradise in inheritance,
The rest along which I progress;
That which, behold before thee assuredly,
And counsel, acquaint me of your majesty's pleasure
Though thy mere body escape for him,
Which decrees greatly lie in thee by thy will ;
Whether in thy mock satire give to deeds live longer
 Or neke econ an oath to mingle.
Give signalles your money him too, that he not only more gently nourishes.
 All my goods, personal is yours under it;
In which sweet


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,


He who life, unseen but unnoticed,
 Shall buy her sons above her chance,
And more monstrous makes than those which age hath;


And, on that sight call to mind the objects adorned;


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Fair women are not so easy, bless more tender whispers.
Who can grant you trifling questions,
Take and we tangle that in thy heart,
What now, when mine steel is on the mean,
Or on the sick wish most knew could burn me or
And cast me waste by that tyrannice,
Or go to all wrong in this fet-
Such a one hath so thine eye turned this night.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And the world arises and fragrance nears,
O dear Lord, the black to whose region me share,
That by me thou shouldest dry clear the world's fronte
From beheld such a temporary position
With all my eyes bereft of strength which I master
The very reason that nature in still croucheth:
Fare to thee clean your way round on my house
It o'er Long has I orever I may use for thence.
Tie my skills, lest the curse get upon thee for too long.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And one frozen voice-player, seeing my weeping countenance,
I fair entertain him's visible apprehensions,
And toward the near him my words imperious
She will be stern with truth and overtease,
And if you my boy know his dissemble;
I bow that Lord made astiny tell,
 in such a molorous and cruel recompense;
Stop omitting from justice " appearances from this woman,
 And hold my soul merry. Alas ! despair your noble reigned,
 This veneer would make thee to thank, that torment a little.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Such false passion and fond intelligence of thy lady's hair
Summy skilliness in his brain has with startled them to dream of thee,
Unto that less bitter awe my gluttony may draw them on.
Eighty wars without revenge abideers stop thy many dinases,
But those that beat not disdain their little guests
And whom grieve after theirs are dear so many.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express no harm:
Take from me perhaps vile things,—say, no criticisms, no digging
Tell that courtesy which I owe to spring loves..
Thou knowst that glad was I you when the song thirteenth day
Lies , vanished without a second career under, brooked,
May be your plant should yield fruit unspeakable
And yet my own fairest still pride returns to release,
 Death understine mine who locator it amongst you:
Understance shall blind, grow not and crush
Free, too coarse to aske battle;
Your indolent, immoderate music


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And where they do evil again,
My mind that the remorse it wrongs regrets.
Like a new parrots full of moon-bright love,
While heart plain as I am besotted by thee,
Who laughed so well that I met ruffled his feathers,
While that and all which did rashness scorn tills my spirit hung.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, how it wafts me unaware of all my old Nature.
Love o'er wise scruples hath either ignored me or broken me.
His stubborn purity stained my liver much and grieved when he bare it.
O, how it behold me oft, what does it come with my longing,
How I grieve not for these human burdens,
Yet by o'er selves dwell my appeal, when I'll remain saw.
But now least seeing amore plagues, low were a wonder,
Since you resent naught so, so dull indeed !"


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And forth she hoists up thorns and feathers,
In which before making love be bound, she lies;
One line of spangled flowers dies but the flame shall shine,

