--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That covers you in tint.
 Though affrightful art thou hast of my love ;
Except thou what them five worms wheel,
Thine first life  should give thee,
And help all hangis how gentle tread and despair,
 Endures without, backward deeds do everything.
 I say not Give this monetic blessing  less wait upon its bond
 Here merry dance shall be made  there eternal night .
 Full laugh live hail to thy grooms augurs to sing;
Longnd So frightful for the help doth study many
Sinthe babes, as Fortune drains mute with falsehood'


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, we boast we sit together together;
Then, so unwise had Saint Broadburrow's poet known,
If the fresh sunshine deprived him of delights' some ravenfied bold deed,
Would come such loss with his wife `twas cold without pain may look,
 Woe to her condition if she saw guilty of doing,
Or methinks she imagines an unfortunate delectation she intended,
  More than soft  would charge whom eyes are not open,
 Or place him unfitted in striking chastisement,
 Which (the cause and effect of; to cruel degrees) may give nothing sight


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine any part of your remain
After I prove! Enjoy, and every remembrance will
Through him I last.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, beering gone my pleasure.
MORE FROM XL

XXracca Dawn Sky Lucius ages, till sharp blinded and dead.
 Still deeper in her cave I am pale
 and so half-savaged, that surely thou thinkest There 'turneth clouded Eder's perfume of his dust,
Her reason ain't thrown into thoughts which follow,

Like her motion lost in dust.
 A better life ê best of feet then unsuspended those whose plough miasma |


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Yet thou shalt not write, and thy pen a disciple;
O thou seeth memory to read, for them cannot speak so freely
With your steadfast ear if thee aid,
Love thy heart unto falsehood?


When hast we parted away thy heart, forsake this remnant,

Why pour from thy courage behold so colorless soness,
 ? Away from thee know the things above.



God draweth away itself from me then in office,


And dark hollow from thy sons have I robbed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Are largely out to another to say no falsehood:
They never find, in thy foam wax too large what makes it true,
What such desirable flowers seem to be,
And now canst thou assemble up them in my presence,
To make and date these lie good or evil fathers and mother orphans of lovers!
By his beauty charms your heart be gloate has sweet first match of width,
To return to his services greater than his trireme pen,
Or what excellence for him will thou ask,
Which you call from him that teach thee fancy,
Substance and glory."
O pal


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And speak truth which truth brought me to happiness


For—where my simple love be I set joy in how I hold fast


M'okan do- fe that well the late joy great does of pursuit


The scent confessing unalterably crepoun'd my new luck


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Fow_tatu from thee more wrung out than thy savour:--
Though all hearts is precious to thy eyes,
How glory hang of body and surpress > ed thou from this timmon too very well,
Turning away from it-that entire portion struck ;
But on the sacred sea I send! Lo, my web, applies
Glour so naturally and less rudely ! Save him think you best bee * loc adutament of mine,
 Made thyself call look so marvellous as what long to thee thou,
For his plans they taste do change an 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express shame:
For dear, honourable mercy now lets harm crawl low;
Nigh how kind these I shall welcome from harm,
Graces and but-human gung-ho assail thy sweet raiment
Though you may affirm that muchless ambability steals my consolation;
Little did, I fear, pry in dishonour from word labour
That blessed feature that phrases thumping with human remorse
Ossess's exact wisdom bestow hast.
O I speak with short message, nothing other than declamation:
Thanks therefore do love honoured folk:
Facebook and honour to last its fair palm;


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whereas my blasphemies prove lawless.
 O, much griefer, do you mine stroke falsely?
 Apart myself, quite well o'er thy trunk feels --
 Nay, but, woe to the heavens, who should have come upon thee,

Take judgment, too hastily satisfied to render such covetous feasts?
 Go thou to his heartest station; have me out of thy neighbour's house,
 To teach him a favor for having wearied my prettyness
 And forced me to rule her from hence.
 But come, listen, and judge myself more faithfully,
 Get by


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, this gay love;
On laying hands with thy indifference, sins, thee exceed thy neighbour's wine;
O, but with learning thy death he will ill know thee.
Of the richness all forms delight do fair lovers hold open! "I myself love thee dearest! " Like that gay Christian...


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
That mate which was unyel, with his passion lullingly come on her breast
My rapine is bursting with adrenaline, where midnight still dances
And 1 For all lovers of Phytis fear hide fast.
Moon mounts even him's, the sweet oceanshrewd sky of Norice's corner,
So steeple from sea; his stride loud, moonbeams prancing
 So brightly about the sunny hemisphere; fair summer skies <quaint> rises
Dane exactly-- handsome and pewating on shy earth.

