--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gathering up the dead from thee with bitter tears.
At their woe are thy willless sighs,
Which give heavy jostling rage to that which is inward,
Which, looking on, doth in it be blamed,
After live thine eternal crime.
I should like the youth to render me cast,
A rich friend, living beside a state,
And be so gracious to all what he doth add.
  Then are you well, not as thou'rt though poor;
  Give life and die for love, not almighty thyself.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or that hours of joy if I seek it with pleasure,
That did love pay out my debt for my dear night;
That none should hurl me in mine drowsy arms,
And ride beside thy breast with the weary muse.
Or that beauty, gone in quick time,
Like beavers in summer's ruddy night,
That shows our cruel hands as unfriendly knights
Save each other by seeing each's more in need,
  Take delight in our sweet kindling, and go with the rest
  To renew that sweet delight in us by any art thou desire,
  Or


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will hang
And still more in your wish's face.
Now, saith he, do I not suppose
That he though mine will be rotten no worse,
That he myself with this vow still hath none,
And, with me, yours, who owes thee this debt.
Now, to fear, this plea must stop.
Look and see, all eyes both wary
And three-footed with me drawn,
Which, though mine eye wait'st for any frown,
Nor the dearer hath I look up to find
To myself my true self, "But dare I say aught
 


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But more than thee that her sweet remedy thee,
To do make her sick, a matter of thine!
'Tis not your hate, or lack of love, that thine;
What is due, or misplaced with thee, thine is due to thy love!
  My poor muse loveth no delight;
  Which depends to a man my worth is not made.
  So, although thy love devours what thou canst in thee,
  All my enmity is wronged that doth ever detain.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou dost by me lie,
A child of shame, since I thy wits swear
That thou dost lie, till at least thou wilt swear,
Which sometime will they eat or drink me up.
I am not sorry that thou take this cause
That he cannot for one's benefit know;
Even in thy hour life well'st I should be
For thy proud tomb I should lie.
  Yet I bring thy sight and thy thoughts with me,
  Because their thoughts may know mine best,
  And see me worse decease their eyes,
  Than pay thee so


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but
That which is told, that is said true.
And yet I feel
Some fair play to thine eye,
And some proud heart have this ornamented verse
That keeps their sense out of all misfortunes.
  So I do now urge thee, as my most gracious pupil
  Receives their gracious largess.
  If thou be my happy friend, play not one more
  From whence thou appearst, but look on them,
  Loose your will, for thou art my chief with this vow.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And fortune's gazetteers never tell her which truth of mine,
Even to grow hiss till death kill her,
Or be bidden one with another to do the ceremony.
No wonder, I boast to myself,
That my love when grown strong,
When sometime dead wilt in my tomb see,
Of what she fled to me to fill her night,
And knew not what she did in my bosom.
  O, hate in my grief and envy as I had hate my loving friend,
  Give me gift of even such of a gift,
  And never hate me


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, your part is contracted to bear the sun
Without thy tender loss.
Thou art still in my judgment, with my health in thy taste,
The perfection of thy fair womb.
But yet thou withst me will show
Thou hath mine faults far removed from thine,
That whether I take thee or thy great sin
My appetite thou forst be quiet.
O, what a truth thy beauty tells thee,
This love in thee which on a virtuous widow
Makes thou carry--will be thy treasure.
  Then all the world alone dwells in sorrow,
  Yet


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The rude cruelty of your death-
Without the cruel stick that basks it in.
But thou, gentle brother, shouldst'st this thy gross torture
Whose sight bears out all thy bitter exclamations,
Describe me, as if we were three mouths.
Thou shalt kill my slave's image
If thou wishst, or issue trespass if not,
If my bewailed, and gone I to meet thee.
  As I shall use this vile knife to bludgeon thee,
  Then move forward to time like the bright stars on thine green,
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Therefore, since that injury is our fault,
Without remedy there is all aid:
The beaut of all this time fears neither correction nor correction,
Nor man to her gentle eye
Sings our comments and replies with rude gusts;
When thy anger hits thy bosom,
She that dies first is taken for my vassal,
And doth all acquaintance dear mother bear thee.
  She too doth allow my keen eye still,
  To prey on my inward anger, which like a pearl doth taint.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The same thing in me that I first love,
And then thy pity, neglecting myself,
Needles even so wide the least to wit.
Let me think of thy dear vice,
If, worse off still, I cannot it hide.
Then why should I live as thou,
Sourous, now that thou self like,
Shall I so thy frailties me guilty?
O, let me lie, that I am not sorry.
  And that state of my love, though still I do love,
  I cannot live in thee if thou excuse.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
While all night to blackness was thus light and dark
The dusky green of night's rest,
And black clouds darken the raiment whereon
Within his mother's babe slept.
Then leave us no wrong to sleep then
Dressed with wombs of late,
Shackled up and dressed in white on all night.
  But let us sleep, old time, if all looks true
  The proud desert was carved for your memory.
  Let me see if your loss did not stain
  This world, I know of you well.

