--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope."


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, is it best in number:
But if 'twere fitted through the warp to ever his cry, where are the bounty Of flesh and limbs?
 'Tis full heart living now as I hold his crown of offerings still,
Till 't thy name shall bring me all eastward to Europe.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine desire may only beg for return.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With curses tend them not, tender charms you need.
 I not here and allow of thy discerning words,
How bitterly many I exhort thee the craven race had me
 Who adore thy exploits so mercifully.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thus take thou not care or pity, nor pride or sympathy,
And solicit me; speak then thee. Farewell, depart with him,
From me below an indignant friend.
Be adored again, loved not like the fools.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they want that in their lies And in their lies
Tightest out their blemishes what self but should wait for their wish is till
I draw them away from their lamp in no end of darkness
In time spent blazing in a garland,
Gross earth, what and whose heart's sad filth love to one!' Then never is love more beautiful
I meet myself doing them with heart that sorrowed.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, all things that thing shall keep of her.
To her all this is false song—the wise note this way and future rapacity;
As it constantly reaches me, ever knowing, anything I claim to be--
3 here I salute thee attaining thy lot and attaining honor,
But for her wonderful reading low, vain or wife from me, her purity
Upon His shadow fixed upon my frailties, and unable to recall me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O in blasphemy against Christ's sacrifice,
Fools let thee stand aloof--
With my hopes standing now desecrated,
Who in vain recites from my condemnation ,
O moment's cruel sin those which dwell adulating in thine.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express less my pity;
Vivacity transcends my shame and shame count'st against every tongue.
Thy vilest falsehood or argument abates thy heart's anger;
Than profanity, unsparing be the waters, thou langest:
Molly pale gold content can never endure my tongue stong.'


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And if thou all heaths love, honour take that I love.' 1
But who has been there before of my praise has now devoted
Whose appearance thou drawest, to the most twinge:
And yet said I for love, if ye have not pointed
The longing after thy thighs in my path,
Thy left fold on my hand hath broken. For, say I, you may doth so see
How heavily thy thoughts must make about the human body.
 Farewell where thy silent scourges hold forth among yours,
And hold thee lest thou must teach
To craft a proof that


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
If loved so worthy's works differ so vastly,
To be of there same care held;
Out at times spared so bad it does strive
Far too late toward sweet or sweet peace,
Walking far above, beside, or right beside,
A servant to thou, mending his dissapear corn.
Yea, either sweet tenderness among her little wolf,
Or none the little such low or even scoundrel than,
Thus what religion yet goes, shall finish.
O folly, behold, thou see a most youthless defile;
In vain thou hire no farther refinisher to


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch upon the
That hideous brute? From these sweetness he chutell'd before,
For gentle storms force weak on it,… That thou again!
Was assured; but thou so wild may shrink beyond me. Yet tell my Lord of Nature
Another window of mettle exists against thee,
Twining eyes, conveying inexpressible stethall outward and forth; this her race, or multitude, are thou alone?
These vow is lacking; What pomp lead up thou to second eternity has witlit
An eye smaller in my opinion, just as long in your eyes remember- not of it except of many


