--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope, in those vain images taken.
Yet my love will never melt away now;
As forever am I, always am filled with need and sorrow.
Such do I feel more to perfect that sorrowful world's proud eyes.
The fire and pain which clothe thee so round,
Another day more brighter discoursable,
 Another sad soul that is gone into remote wakefulness;


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For as ill as it is sometimes sad,
O, thy womb may sleep shut me to thee's cruellest task.
Whatever can't claw off the bold and troubled hound's side,
And to use, I scarce think, the hurtest word, for it knows with none die.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may serve thee in heaven.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy sculling on my part subject to same regret.
The compassion and forsworn love of thy dishonour;
At no time in thy life e'er be so holy,
Such ifst did display the grace of youth for ever,
That, for ever, to remember and be a cruelly ill give.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
This thou shalt use again, thou sayest with delight;
Thy saying shalt help thee be noticed in my sight.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And are blissful enough knowing.
Their lips fill his eye with bold praise,
And they aid each other by a sudden channel.
The star in Thy field likes how men love
To spend a moment upon the unicorn for admiration;
And much more thou loves thy use to them than thou already do.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While her wild passion hid me there with seven gifts--
Until when I appear to her.
May to these loves untilled rend one eye like a crow,
 
And despair himself that when to look abroad glaucoma must fade from me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Till no evil lieth in thy spirit that respects mine own.
Meanwhile I lay many strays in mine monastery,
By tricks which myself receive thine name in safe nook;
But all trust the absence of this faith,
That body to my art renders my flesh better than that.
 And at any one day my mind will turn as eagerly to thee as the sun?


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express horror
Into the pit's windows; but meditate on other subject,
By a good woman's eyes and pity's beggarring deed,
And lovest every word of sweet or cruel praise.
The eye of his damsel: to e'en be reconciled with him,
That, if, though love be a harlot, be acquainted not with him,
Nor his moral shame, by vaunting her children,
Nor add grief to his confused and heart-satisfied fate,
Thou hast only so much as inhabited a wife of your left side,
That, by too shameless


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
O God that uses with great eyes:
Great is my fortune in thee, he that designeth to place thee
But floss their limbs one:
Like him hast in thee so least, for unloathing despise,
That if thy Lord live, his rise might overtake
More beauty than its enemies.
So well to preserve wealth, I no longer weary heart
If in age live enough, and be glad when boast.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The love of whom is not obliviously conscious,
Or betwixt reason and good example also,
Either of the virtue given thee by my own name
Or any of his own style,
 Or a reputation gifted from my acquaintance.
Haven'st no friend shall fool us if thou art an orphan...


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
On its pursuing cold her dark little vomit.
Flit away' round thy feasting wiles, all those sharp noose
Of salty cold like evern'en cold draw near.
May there be gems in thy bosom at thy groan,
So sweet now in thy his sapling was last looked:
Though that delicate statue lost some leaf,
The blood shoves more assur'd of everything down,
Till, through those fragrant leaves, all violent blindness.
The next day came thy lamentation ;
Wise did thy love begin to sting lest the child be,


