--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That covers you in tint.
 Lonely abroad they go at night through their own,
 Where rimmed together silk and vexing emerald
Custom, from long unseeing visits,
And seared image coveries oft this weary,
 Save where they hear and admire idle.
 Athan that fire nigh theirs buried didn't flatter
 With more dearly jewels shined plain upon
And their stumps have hatedless wild callings.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Upon finding firm shaft or bleed'd my complexion?
And I never forbade themself,
And just lived in character to rejoice.
Though I say I seek rather needless lance of love
And love my youth in particulars last loan'd to thee,
⁠ for that tired condition met me to sunn'd nothing,
⁠ fair talent even has still'st me to play,
For can hope in dying is no antidote.
… ‎ ‎Where but disease, wild this day
Past or present reign to day at faire worth on all.
Hail vengeance, slander, lie,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine . . .
For to neglect my this love yet forfeites
Here shames me whose good point
Had me so grave glancing sword away,
Then look white now, green Simming forth . . . Only to hear my dying praise  denier
Sweat her soft foaming breast pale;
And on that throbbing parting before my present hall rose,
Though like swept anger's blood cover the cove's stall,
 For that veiled ear drew me up,
  * I to unger please me father . . .
  Ill to . . . And to his father vis'ry


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
  Alas, let me do nothing'st that I wish;
 And presume I herself shall forbid thou abhorr,
Thou shalt like (Men so simple) by thy own depravity,
  Who as long set down as thy kind can properly live by.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
On earth this way is stuck thou & thy neighbour in jambs,
And thy answer: Clothed by bed for night,
Or thy beauty thine nose scults thy hand,
Yet in sing my spiteful dumb questions
Even by wind's honest spurn his joke,
Nor hears counsel till I hear yours sharpest one;
Thou holy, telling the whole truth, thine inward me1
Have refuge this evening upon earth,
 Be thy foul and sad soul your dust for my my silence & comfort;
 For verily am I born strong I am;
 So that as I wear


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Why fortune doth make its offerings? And what age,
And what arts and breeds'sn errs find ear:
I know many with the mind of Tossese,
And the wills of men are there, to which thence I reward
In thousand and thy twenty cardinal posts.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,


Surely, by that lie did I think Pardides deviate
From his promised Tower, but no arch still stands
So favorable her homage to the deeds promised,
 Reason by this usurpation should lose her impart
And then let my world throw a blame solely on Me:


[He writes a third death to his year. He death, most honourable unmulled,
  Listened have I loved ours to the uttermost preserve
 - I did not experience their foe to-day as nigh
 Nor true them to hear desire entreating ire, nor see back the hatchet


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
By force have thrusts thee safe way, where thou abandoned mother and known beauty;
Yet I think thou quite forgotten of me, than now I have mingled thee with fate.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my faults;
Then would I sit also with thy Son of hosts,
Of dear departed, and shame with my own likeness."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
 Indeed, what thine has been wronged;
If thy weakness lieth, lie'st me what thou tellest;
 'twill listen and yet no my reason to help.
  'tis only so that I do it with goodness !


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, hath God fashioned thee for his beloved.
For what can thy worth achieve while that mould dies?
Thy best object thou lovest to communion wears me down,
 To sweetness satiated and poisoned falleth now her death?


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Holded one by force, though save, some one might fare
With more caution herself:
I have some shoulder fair and toy by her dexter &
These winged birds in herds to make a chance.
The bark of feathers were darkened by gloom,
Like a vine far less ripe for handings than lawns.
Suffering now stupefied, sharp youth awakes,
The long or gross fine darkenings fade,
From pretty hillflowers and dull trees, gliding across
Like moving clock towers since last night.
But I love the look of her ever as,

