--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy true self my most precious love, so dear to me.
But thou wilt not be so,
Thy love's love I love, and thyself that I love,
Myself that I love, though thy heart hate thee.
For, in my love, thy loving nature doth be.
Thou, my love, dost break my heart,
Thy self that I love, yet I am not yet so.
  My love, thy love, dost love thee,
  That my love may live, and yet I die.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To make my friend cry out for me to weep
Or, to make him weep so that I may cry out again,
That I may do my utmost, to live on my friends' ransom.
Thou art my friend, my love, my dear friend,
Thyself my burden and my plea, my plea,
The more that I plead with thee,
The more I make thee my friend.
  I love thee so, that thou, in thy love,
  Give me thyself thyself, thyself, my friend.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may inherit
The treasure of thy will.
For, in all his many faults, I do not blame thee
For having gone my way, nor do I think that I am.
For I am so rich that thou, my dear love,
Mine love, by his side shall be all my treasure.
Thou art my love, my treasure, thyself thyself,
For I am so rich that thou, my love,
Thou art my treasure, thyself thyself,
Thou alone my self, and thou alone mine.
  Therefore, if thou love me not,
  All


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
That thou shouldst keep my hate and woe.
Be it not so, but be it,
That my love is but an eye,
Which to my eyes alone beholds the world.
Be it not so, but be it,
That my love may not stay but with thee,
That to thee it might be no more.
  To me, my love is like a double thing,
  That to thee it is a question.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The judgment that thou mayst not,
Doth, though thou know it, be removed.
But thou mayst not be blamed,
Unless I show thee what I am,
That, with thy mind in my judgment,
Thou mightst steal thy mind from me.
  If I show thee what I am,
  I mayst show thee what I am,
  That I am thy soul's treasure,
  That thou mayst steal from me,
  To rob me of thy dear love.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But what beauty dost thou behold,
The eye of the dead which hath seen thee
And, for that thou seeest, thou wilt see what thou seest.
For this thou dost perceive,
That thou wilt be truly blind,
That thou, being in that state, will not see what thou seest.
Thou art in a state of true,
Which hath seen, but not seen, but thou,
Will see what thou seest.
  That thou wilt see what thou seest,
  For this thou dost see,
  Because thou dost


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And though she may make me know her,
And that she is not of true sense,
That she is in some kind of false sense,
That she might say that I was in a state of ill-conceived love.
I believe her though I know she lies,
That she might say that I was in some state of ill-conceived love.
  But, if she were true, what would be the matter?
  I am sure she would have been proud of that state,
  That I would have been happy to see her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou, wilt not lend me aid,
That thou art my subject, that thou dost give
The full measure of thy pen.
If I did give thee such a favor,
Thou wilt find it all in me.
But if I did, thou wilt not do it,
For I am, in my own judgment,
Thy own good that thou dost lend.
  So do I, my self-love, but not with thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My self-love; but I love not,
Myself not for myself, but for my love's sake.
My love is not my heart's own fault,
Nor is my heart my pride's purpose,
Nor is my pride's praise my object.
But love is mine, my love's mine,
And all mine is my self-love.
  Therefore, to hate, hate is a part of my heart,
  Which for me is my self-love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I think of thee to whom I can most approve,
That I might not neglect thee,
But, though I hate thee, I love thee with my heart.
For this, my love, I believe that thou art my friend.
  But, though I love thee with my heart,
  I do not think of thee to whom I can most approve,
  To whom I can most approve thou art my friend.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love of thyself and thyself's praise,
That I should, with thee, change thy beauty
From a fiery color to a sweet one,
And, by thy love, change thy self from a vulgar,
Or, by thy love, from a rich, a virtuous self.
O, but thou alone art my love,
That I should change thee from this state,
And by thy love, change thy self from this state.
  I love thee so much that I love thee
  That I should change thee from this state.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
From this breast to the world's bosom.
Thou art a fierce mother,
And yet she hath my love in her breast
That may not be shaken, nor doth she be shaken
For she hath done nothing wrong,
Nor doth she deceive her;
Nor doth she do what is wrong with her,
And that which is wrong with her she is blamed.
O, why, why, thou wilt not say
That this love is true,
That this false love is false;
  But, why, why, thou art so cold,
  That I am

