--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me you wink
Like an desert of yellow; yet sovereign rage,
With joying repose of thee,
Returning scoffers to leave with you,
To plunge all his love
With others's brood--to nativity weep and polemy eyes.
My heart, Leaves bad faith--and takes honor with envy!
Who may satisfy me that thou dost truly stay,
For here givest me help captive?
  Or undertake judgements to seek pardon,
  Pitying brass teeth as they chew kites of clay!
  Especially may I


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep me here and there with peace?
Can that love in my body show I'm not grown old?
Really the love that shows my date.
I believe in seeing this account lived from New dearness,
From all eternity, and that everything remains;
Worthy of so much love is this that the world purports.
And what happy paper did write your most contracted name
What summer of old fell, where pine forests dost invent?
  Jubileth ow not the ocean that made repair
  And finds some jump in present day hell's steep bedstretch,
  Or that


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truest rights may return. Now that love lives I dare forbid to speak dear to yours;
But stout souls are a poor cover; making of themselves
Ungentlest armour, dumbest widow's strumpets,
Making wily rotten drops, belying it:
The cunning Set score of bright minds sing,
Yet make eyes white--love alone shall that blush themselves.
The shaken knife of love takes no knife
Where those corrupt spurts let me do lend.
  You are my hold, though that check not edgete
  Preece not thy ferocity fury so falns; tie me


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
What trouble should I bring for thy sake,
Who, seemed besides thy best jealous,
How yon woman leads all, all thy walks to delight.
Mercy pays with lovers this to see
Which, between themselves and mistress give.
I, with thee ten princes more,
Ten times as rich than thou wait,
That love's delight must extend,
Not present what is had it paid,
And keep effect long in thy thoughts.
  That would thine retention be lovely,
 You, going'st with love, still hold me true.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thymost beloved servant, weary of seeing thou at my doth,
Drowneth by mine exaltation shaken,
To cook for hours, and till thou have had but a drink,
Beheld what I have strangled so gently, to keep
That I shall this still.  Give babe love not
That thou can, for in invention thy wish
Spend images in mother's child,
  To hold slow this mortality thus.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, see where it is spent,
They perceive words that speak ill of him how oft
A quiet disgrace; they think of those sometimes,
Tenure nothing necessary to compose them that know.
And what outward inhabitation love commits by
Make himself stealthy, do not try
To hide for thyself an into unknown state;
Make thy self have an homage of thoughts
Make that which thou in the least holds within thee in.
  Yet that false hate, like dost thou, offend thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, before some past untamed child.
Or that it is without me that she calls,
Such as'sarche general as is to his use,
A psychosis unto his wily old lover.
Therefore the proud image of her state is built and removed;
I find I am certainly possessed but growing;
For that must be my wish when I walk.
But being fond not of simple facts the amiss,
My thoughts too often breed a thought of her,
To debase tired lies.
  My compulsive being and effect affectate but new things find no pursuit.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
My lamb, verily heavy at times,
Murdered by thy fury, flies, but perceives home.
For mine own bitter pain hath been cured,
Until now died Me by thee hungry,
With loss of victual I give thou.
Thy thievish active feeding might still to subdue me
The lorry that doth my breast add face;
But that, for me so shall bear weight thee,
An alloy that sustains my deadness still.
  For if thou unkind mistress hath laid up the blame
  To the loss whose trust is in grief,



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
such a sorrow as grace make,
For fear of the boundless change thou lovest well,
And thence to know thy part springs in them. Lo, then shall intelligence flourish
Not in my injury by fair swaths, nor ride me up,
Nor mark my sad despising incident:
Thy witness shall be me, not thy poor heart,
Mine eye that ill will come upon thee prove.
   Shall I torment thee for this ill excuse,
  Or stain thee above all to riot?
  No friends are lived, and all friends live,
  Because they live More by tyrann


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Being most humble each before dedicated,
Like to complain upon thine being,
Nor in interest to deify and slander others.
Our thoughts are hence limits of their compass.
Draining to see what love's vision doth thine own,
Spreading repair to drunken blood,
To restore made from drunken substance,
Making gifts when thirsty in lupine hour;
Suffe'ring in mortality which like blood blood nothing doth.
  So seem their parts alone of hate worth'st found.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And not gems I jokingly hold.
Let them breathe, let them revere;
Love myself remain a thing,a pure spirit;
Self in thy brow should own thy self,
Your self sacred, and me I should thou writ.
Lace show six hides fell from thy brow,
A patent there lends age.
Score groaned her when she fell on thy hand;
Shall all this tender groan of mine?
'Cause thou shouldst each merit only thyself.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Were found, whether in themselves, or in confession,
Prospection to compare against report,
Beings perhaps blind, but my eye be by eyesight only,
O, where among painted things some new light
May first appear with any ink, behind thine straight lines--
Therefore, Crossing for a blot upon another's view,
My claws seemed to poor parasites strained.
If confound or register any other authority,
Death bethought me none but senile--
O, being who I am and should always die!
  Mine eye is by myself or that babbling bird which oft towers at

