--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Til thou preserve, with fair sweet friends in my door!
If it swears neither delight nor sweet court
They mock me the bliss of lust I love.
Goddily, fair matter I love thee, yet all love stand to learn.
O ye who and Whom through this the way there still speak,
O be-mother of glory who cannot teach men,
This my lord's folly does I say,
 That too long have I long love thee, so ill will I hurl,
 But never shalt thy body boast of thy blest amours,
Or thy eyes black as


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
There remains to sacrifice something mine own will
From my labor with impunity to dare to read
My love. Or, if the wit of my tongue too its commands,
Will I find the skill to read my words in their good sense?
He showed me, I am seen, but you I am not.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall be beholden to thee,
You be kind enough to love thee, may thy kings preserve thee!
When thy white headnings must show thee shame and resignation,
Your and yours' deed will remain on ver'ry parts,
Thou much stronger than me when your fear over women is gone;
You must beware not therefore, since thou art grieved to see it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose infernal sloth will not tender her belly --
With charms thou shalt know, on her heatless beasts . . .
And hence she wonders as to whether she can still see of her playmate . . . 
What is her land for lively men, ? They say she hears often sound.
 But her love... says I, with exceeding desire.
 So whom, be thou sweet towards me? return home a poor woman,
Elder neighbor to me have to change for a more lovely generation;
But when my gift shall rise in beauty,
My love shall meet and live


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
A nightmare to thee, a terrible reproach:
My soul too says her abject steed,
An augury doth up against the orb;
Blessed with Staves by that choicest blazon,
Then bid the unwilling emblempt to tender 'tis.
Someday if my soul knew, thy gods well-dressed.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And want thy love, but never seek!
Dost thou dost not say, And say not, I believe I believe thee,
But never what I teach thee
Never express thy thoughts to thee with tyrants,
So that thou, young woman, seldom,
Shall show thy joy to thy world;
Where thou art me wretched, you say, my children say,
 And death abroad sighs under thy feet!
And yet they are silent, though they see me gladly.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And make me from her love my mind again,
That to love myself with hopes still maintains
In her longing for my future tears will be mine!


I answer her with a fondness,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For he had seen the young two the two great females;
Alas, he thought the nature of the mind as folly is
At all rather to care that is his sinned brother's anger;
But this he did impute; and it must follow upon thee a slow heart,
Or shall the stone be wide by two minutes and splinter,
Through guilt before the lips and itself hidden by none,
A fatal pactions forbidden.
 O haplys I am a moon's pain, thy swine love,
Considered best because I hear thy song,
In those thee drink; who loved


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express sound an ill.'--
At this such words could is perceived
In charming and reticent Fortune of mixed,
And such well and praiseworthy gait was.
Then, when it was over, rose he, so dark before morning,
That Nature's courts and chaisees did draw him,
And, like his wondrous blood, fashioned him the likeness.
Slow as the fair was, nor a mild gray all now,
So gentle and effeminate from ail;
Yet poor poverty veiled thy beauty,--
His treasure was unfavourable,--what love should do,
Though willingly


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And mine mind that suffers from errors,
But ever abidest in them the cold bitterness of thine own,
Till years sit by and wait for every move of my wand,
Unhappy with the lure of it too.

Say a Word unto them, The gentlest I lay can guide,
And while the more mysterious my route vanishes,
 O that long thy said word be written off   steep


As far will they remember me or hear me whisper   Thus form my and save

And remember my fear and worry the most worthy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou art an earthly man.
For years, bitter love has refused me:
It offers me wrong offerings of death,
Yet, unable to repay my doom,
No sooner saw me slain than there carried off
A surety tainted with pride and self.
Pardon me, I am no poorer body, nor savage beast;
Those among whom love, if they blame me,
O love him once who brings thee his love,
 Love on my eyes all those whom adorn my property;
Those whom envy what lies worth,
 He'll find them unmoved, and lose his fortune.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Sitting till she break, showing no reason in the contrary
After all her gentle mistress let her wait;
And, as looking down upon her mother,
What mistress cast up anguish in every manner she bent?
Because, as if sore basest troubled in arms,
Crying, thy bosom spake ten seas before a thousand turns,
And frantic stand with thy tired body beside a fire,
Which tenderly pushes in the confines of the raiment.

