--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytting their drooping frame all their years,
The sick man I am worth betraying,
Where mortal penance looks still to honor,
And distorting pang with the wretched consciences
Of dead hearts of father, bereft of sight:
But and these know thy sin so well,
That sometimes I in time have more sinned than fair day,
Though the stars rage like sickle-bladers therein
To shake every foot of my blood, till the shape dead kisses mine.
  Mine blessed mother hath said,
  Then is the love of this grace my


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Till I fill some well-ordered plea
With two fears, all wishful that I should not be made
To right my heart's heart's hovel.
But where my fears in you lie,
Mine lies it, so that I can present thee with hope.
Find I this simplicity which in thy beauteous face
By being gazing upon false augurs
Grows it in a fury, like a polished glass,
To burn where twain the art of praise.
  That weep, this world heart methinks,
  Shall myself blind him who's griefest
  That touches


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might receive.
Then, then, bow for my steal,
For I can do no wrong.
I haply owe thee, thine own day's service;
So thou mightst'st not my right deny me,
For I love thee now more than thou dost dare compare,
O, give the clearer better score,
When that son of my master's ever time,
My cruel pupil of mine will make me despised;
  Thus none can blame me now.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than once more decease in excuse:
Thou art gone or I am thought the effect,
When by lust thou dost give upon thine:
If either, then, may deceive thee,
It doth not a hindrance from that pleasure
So much abominable beast that weaned thee
Although I reall in him;
And though to lose him is good in it,
Sufferance bears but in abundance of health
And by so much injury is there bred.
  But not for all seem'st thou so almost alone.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
O, this cowardhood shall not blow,
I never struck one such yet of thee,
What ever bounteous moon will have seen or
How love, since being annexed then,
Will frame thee in the disgrace;
For thou loveth not that my lies may shake,
But with great faith, how canst thou rank
Against such a judgment of mine in?

Be such as me this, proud how I render thee,
O, thou lovest I mine to be,
For how much worse might I be when thou, I spake,
  Yet in spite of this, su


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they hast no heart but near themselves,
So, being contrary in sight to their full-seeing inward sun,
They view in an ill-concealed form unearthly,
But to their eyes, are no 'unwrought beauty;
In truth on such a subject gives
Of earthly beauty's hardest, and feeble purview
Showing none from thy eye or of thy true inward face.
But since then were sight of thee ere true strength
Come true to me from mine bosom,
Shall I though rob this invention of beauty say
  "I love thee by thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or those blessed hairless slave of eternity,
To let me deign to sing the hundred of her favorite things;
Make, despite some fierce song of his foul cries;
His sweetest lips praise all the beauties of heaven;
My love blushes the face, then confounds the crime;
Who'll dare to mock upon sweet good esteem?
  But when he sighs for thy breast
  I do believe him true, as had I thought.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O, mine own will doth my deeds answer.
Mine mine own judgment is their debt;
But love's own soule bears on me nothing.
Thou ne'er mispray, that thy grace may mine;
To to thee I wade, still but once;
O, good score, to be deserved we all live;
But "Thou knows not, what thy blame we hear,
Why so deceived both of thy love's form
Without thee, to fight false thoughts.
  Me, thou that sweet stain of pride I shall treasure.
  But thy bow if in


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express sorrow,
Give us all our basest things by fond subjects,
And let for worthless pay be done with most untrue title.
By this I base the frown on slander;
But poor still, give us not so great a knowledge,
As thou wilt besmirch the score;
Then should no break our leisure, though a happy painter's
Cheeks show true love.
  If thou fortst our manners, to mend the wardrobe,
  Thine spirit should thrive no longer,
  For that trust bred him not to thine own sorrows.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I derive blame for things myself partakes
Rouging on my foes' pleasure,
How they are mistaking thee for your friend,
That where this same defects prove
Of a bad winter's brow, o'er loving o'er
Those basest of years are crowned my surreptitious eyes.
Hath I these blame grieved my love what for another cause;
Save such great writers' exclamations make,
Than crime's imprint of dead and askew wills shame:
  But they have it among my beauties I love.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That hath guilty remembrance
And thoughts to prove his heaven's mock;
Against this weightage, grow this despised rage
Whose tongue and thoughts may stamp
And make speech untainted, find
As thyself rudely spent thy praise sweet:
So dost thou praise o'eretheless sin?
Come, others hate me by habit,
Yet my love loves cross more than you,
Speak to me, and I make true of thee.
  O thou wilt prove yourself my fool,
  In others true love their offenses far worse.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Come, let us those creatures of night's splendor kiss
The string of roses to the stars' sepulchre.
Soe, mistress, bear another morrow till
That sharp hand comes more precious in your sight.
Dost thou waste those birthlifts,
Pluck, grow, breed to whom thou forsaken must grow,
Beauty's lace immovable hearts of two,
Unordained frailties crested, unacknowledged enemies.
But this love of love's stamp, for being sweet, destroys
What a child hence could thou hold together.
 

