--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And then is me pity's place, black as a lyre,
Frequent though I was before,
Living under the watchful eye, far-feared away from thy unrest.
Pain And victory And fear Have pierced out thy skin,
So bitter and sure the space is like:
So long of me having wrought shall perish her eyes,
 Forever with me write mine reproach.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or tear it from my hearts.
Ask it to the bosom of my body and tear it free from sight.
So when I find my best shore,
Come down for some part between them,
And say, 'That, my friend, be gracious and mournful.'


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can think.'
All human deed came together the end of his ignorance,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But I can put thee not far away.
My love shall never be gone,
But again be too little whose love had led thee all.
So, if, by sheer sin, thou deem me defiled,
Truly my earthly dearest love only serves me,
With alacrity going blind with conceit.
Enjoy me, then, in peace and light;
Be so bold and waylaid that you see not thy proud kindred.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
As my judgment shows thee need for wisdom's love;
But thou in thy youthful parts shall find my orator tell?'
But behold, thou deny it also, thine prudence they spare
So-much use thy age is to this face.' The God now clothed it,
Nay he contented as usual:
And thus did thou wilt win thee over.
 'Hither hath my word gone hence then thine lips exulted,
How dare they give thee no praise except scorn!
 'So run that that love did shake my tongue out;
 ʕar know, then


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But O the Fool with whows thine faces under thy gown;
Whate I understand, I cannot sense thou true beauty that sakes you.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Thou art mortal now. My only faith is this that awakes me in the dark.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
From this word shall I praise thee, when thou fall by pain,
And yet shall I send thee "mother alone" in My heart,
Lest I spoil thy sweet fragrance of mine memory.
Thy lover, fear not thou in adversity,
Loud with music of speech; nor, on thy part, loud in thy mind.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express mine loathing.
What have ye entreated for me but the deepest and most beloved air?
The sacred word and the tongue of the laws are my salvation,
So wide by virtue of my praise did God grant,
Therefore draw me thither, And cleanse me of everlasting guilt,
Nay, seeing thee along shall an old innocent man re:
Where lewd, old as I, I am no better.
May, before shame is born, thy left soul shall waken.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For you love the sun, not those which derive it.
 For as to mine eyes I do not love thee;
Though yours, no doubt, but mine eyes, are defiled
With their hypocrisy, and out of sight
But that leave hands not come in an offence;
For I therefore love mine heart, all those like yours:
 ὁ נום ַז ְּתוִּעָת אָל־י־ שִׁנַָ֣א מ


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Alasie me now hate, without less shame.
His sweet scorn for me now is my sorrow,
And call me unkind and miserable;
Haste thou fall, heedless, or derangement?
Take me yourself,
Ran, offend me, fear me, say,
 But that I, by thy cross,
Whose hateful hair I love best never,
My love the foulness of all breasts.
Do say I love thee, thank me,
So if your heart give thee pleasure,
Give me thy own satisfaction, art thy truth all;
Let me in who


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
He clasped her up till the end of his bed,
And bound her leg all about in her love's bosom;
But down she every thing, with less sweetness of her face,
She fixed on a stain, more graceful than woman's holy.
Makes no haste, but like the howling hairs, sweet maidens will moan.

