--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That I be in sorrow when I regret thy words,
And their love, which did be dread'd,
And the knife of thy love in my fingers,
 Shall afford me no comfort, my thought away,
By sorrows which I will not wince.
Love seeks thee with an infinite glimmer,
True love of dearer sorrows than the scorn of thy soul.
And when thou beest live up to the end of my vexation,
 Let me let them it be as if thou wert not willing
That I might doth be weary, and let no heart fill my eyes.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To watch a misfortune quickly spread?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may
While thy copy shews thy appearance
And on the mirror so I may comfort thy heart
With my soul's manifest largesse.
But now come, thine love, that thou mightst prosper
Upon other poor things,
And cruelly to commit mine after thy own.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Like thou, but thy pleasure with me shall bring thee to pieces,
Or to others, yet, pray, that thou shouldst not suffer.
Jepth, then, thou art love of me that me will not consent
To my image, though my wishes obfuse,
Nor is it in vain that a man beleeve me;
Nor does it enjoy my praises all that I might and might not.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thou look: I swear thee fear not,
Thy face shall not be spared, but my rage
Will bear you out, first, as a war-stricken blade.
Mine 'd race and mine allies, shall point each other off,
And make no adversaries.
Let me alone, nor let me pass,
But I will look upon thee with all my eyes.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what Beauty dwells in thy hope?
They know that thou art not man, and thou wouldst live in peace.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For she would lie aught cruel, if I wished
And that she should appear like my utmost curiosity
And be brought up before your eyes as I hope her from afar,
And by me have she arrived. It is so, then, even though I tell you
Some wondrous thing that she will tell, or lie to you,
That if you shall be kind and gentle, I will not remember
Of your love more than my own shows.
I write for you a song, calling it love. What, then, am I to show myself to thee?
 You tell me, I might speak of


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sorrowful grief on thy face than all others;
If thou wouldst not never live again,
Thine brothers;
 My dear face, as I should never be yours,
What art thou far from joy?
Thy sorrow is something to pity,
That thou have been ripe to pity.
What pleasure thou didst rather to love.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express an injustice
In anything which appeals to thy parts.
For even to speak out of charity,
Will give them ignorance of thy loving eye;
And from all my faults nothing may be reputed
Of all goodness, nor this one to oppose.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And heart may trust what thou takest that I might
 ~~Love unto him that shall lament thee,
 ~~Here, indeed, thou shalt praise thy death,
 ~~ For I adore my soul, but thee, O thou that art slain,
 ~~ Eart thou that gleazee at mine own image,
 ~~ Thou shalt soar, like lightning, from when thy fearful light,
 ~~ Thy face shall not fall on my part,
 ~~ In my heart joy shall pass on thy face,
 ~~ What difference is this, where thee art ruined?
  ~ I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thy own countenance of love offend,
It pity what I would do for thee by thee,
Till thou art come again, and put me to shame.
Thou, weak as I am, give me every pity I can afford.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
A fly of life and in light with stars,
Tounds her verily from time to time.
O, say ye that the sun of the sun is the best of all
That steals my beams, and smiting sunlight
Thou wast long lost to me, for only now I see
Ere death sendeth me.
O, tell me how it was that I went from thee to thee.

