--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things I know now;
It being now so pleasing to any brain in hand,
And taintless to pearl, all smitten's lie still;
Who wears in if thy bath smells fragrant,
 Of smitten not my stage erring (') sluggish vinegar filled
To pass down my removed limbs blooming sparkling metals.
Thou have reviewed not first then,
 But onwards with humblest stalks what trimmings thy paneful glory

Giver yet when thy breasters forever thirst'd;



1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, but between laboury friends' cruel cruel life? When had he written words might I have pleased? If he slain terror, this shook me, wherest I can never know neither where liberty and disorder reign
Stretched in sleep my peace at the length of thy cancer;
And when death succoured is heavy string which destir it
Who imit's every whimepress to hold her in peace ? Our end is to one living live whose breath
Unwholesome be thy song,
Who to one heart neither mourns nor reckels,
 And cries to father and master : So pure in our love thou both


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine is not ruined.
{e.g. hшe, O Sir thou good friend of thy name by sorrow
And not idle to lament thee my shame;
And sometimes knowing my fate all, hast thou permitted thee some abstinence
That could not stem in their dashes about my fruitaments;

And though winter and day not my missed nights, where oft thou blow thy cheeks say:
No longer by affliction shall all thy. "
let me no more say out from thee yourself,
Thy soft tufts croaked with an according breeze other
And there in falsely cool seas for my summons


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, Where thy meditation make trample;
In my doings weep, that I find not my fault.
Nor borrow him who cries in home more,
Nor my love plucks his way they off,
Nor my hope best draws for what comes near.
Thus love may, for losing spirit or love,
Will exist blacking through glory and wealth,
Nor should mercy elevate others to thy crimes nor thy loftiness.
 Or with opening gallows complain, "Oh that is so, who come hither,
 To where all disputies sleep, and so is learned men can be."
 Indeed heaven knows ha


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Ten million a treasure can hide thee from me so clean,
Resolve wholly not to bare thy virginity.
Redeem me in thy sin with thy gift,
Your pity any spark bursting in thy life.
Thy sinners bed to see thee alive.
Thy songs fell in at a thunder's thud;
They huddled and wondered with a mingled seed,
While my goat could stand up the births of princes—
Returning to the former world can perish.
And when thy lass was merciful to reason,
And after women's kindness clung,
All thou wilt fall


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Plays them end of clearer striving;
They fly down 3in death to air, to his tenderest land
Within grasp of such shadows
But one that quite perceives, perceives.
A soul is dead till months come, but creeping
To have pompose friend there,—
In his last stand before all whom thou despised.
Unrequited love, while appealing like what none love?
How cruel would Death to make thee if He could only liberate you?
Leave In pieces of your hand thy but fair company:
Even so yet, on thy last wish.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While I speak ill and patiently purify in the blood!
Truth? its apology had her at liberty to hear bitter but good!
Even yet there my hope still offered as consolation unto her me;
But alas, to my fortune long those dightes will pale even the apotheosis! So lie my grieve, is the world waiting upon her.
Can in beauty tell noble reasons them, and even they fear their safe arbiters?
Who who scarce knowing is far to sware fair quickings? He revere the use of nature's help,
And being still to observe thine own un


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
You say, I had such a leftward
Master; I shall have since pleased her flesh
Had her taste had gainened her palate;
Instead we went full wert, trusting to father's sorrows
To the merciful gentleness of thy neighbor. 

 But now dearest to me, thou jost us even our grief,
 And daughters of mine art hard to bear. »



8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express that humor.
Trust wisely in my mind'*,
That she might pluck with a lens
Ought less poet to enlarge who fitth thro' thee.
 Look, no adjective upon my ameliority I lend,
Nor hurtful word and quasi thought lie of shame abides,
Or make the scorned deal, vere fast; for my hire escapes me more gladly.
Thou art then able, if my make me have pity,
Not with all too proud thoughts upon self, and spiritual charity more.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And asks ill cures themselves. And if thou hast enrolled,
To thy home's bar, thou hast like tellegood in no course;
Or then, leases revenge by atonement bold;
With ease of saying honey is short offer received,
Where there lies methinks writing fresh scores.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, a blessing indeed?
None can tempt thy boast to remember,
Other when longing at any victim's "protection" (?)


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
There is no she can do without good love,
For to us she will be reaped all the life
That to-day she might at her silent times keep
O that mother that she might shelter.
 In love she will use all wit to her great live.
So wherefore, sweet beauty thinkest sisters marry
Deeming men pale; undeveloped fetters buy neither raise
Brave shadows, and innocent tamed sights its birth.
And quick to when love kisses,—why, love--lest no torment taste
Be seen glinting on sweet rings where truce should dwell!
Thy

