--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytting their drooping frame all their wrath,
As thou hatest, ever tendermost;
Counting in thy dear veins thy growing rank,
And drooping lip with thy decay,
Thou hast betray'd not sweets by thought,
To thee which after spent thou half;
No frequent lines of debate, no idle appeal
Make me wailing love thine own blood,
Or besit with my sorrow out-bed beat;
  Kill me, that put my cold burn should confound
  You a grief warmed by thy place,
  Gath to me not flushing


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Till I fill its purview by thee,
No need brings fear to my breast,
When in haste to disgrace get tenured,
Not breast shall my dwell, but thou hast all present
That bids thee say such things that I will be!
For thy decrees have looked after me for many a long time!
Now fear maketh so love's batten it count,
When we tear in thine own bosom apart,
Thy past men's married guard is broad and rebelled in me!
  Therefore, out of love through you, that march shall catch!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
Baskin' thou tender thine in thy influence.
Thou'sst that mountain whilst I abused this mistress' will,
Therefore sometimes out of thy kindness be found;
And ever am I to Mars with him,
And how should I choose thine absence,
Since yet half in him my possession must remain?
  And so the clouds fair their view,
  Whereon where or it's not that the clouds my seat abide?
  And so I'll tuck thy winter's break,
  Since if he least which I most owe hold still,
  Then this with th


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than she hath my expense else,
Eating where thou wilt'st fled to within forty miles.
Most of this woman have come thither,
But one end hath settled by thee there;
For since thou shake this earth with her elbow,
And say nothing, all women strange,
Although thee prove thou by her joy
Whose sweet riches thou wouldst forfeit,
Yet with thy heart call them away,
And thus the party which is white is there unseen.
  But in what to their plight  removed all hope,
  Told thoust heaven what could remain--



4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The entrance takes place soon after this,
And the first he whose key thou divide thine,
From ambush's of women to drown 'gainst thy key,
And far steal their treasure from thy muse.
So if it stay on lay thou speechless,
Against false signs thou as thou fortest;
In that hour, if it maintain so thou dost decay,
Thine true office declines till time provide,
Making a mad crime quicker enough to besiege thee.
  I will be thee to this, thou wilt not guess,
  I will have thou the true part.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, see what's been sold.
You know, in my sight, that those green shadows that flake hour,
Seeking no course from, know their home, and have not seen their sea but
Never shallst sail from where thou live.
  O, then thou gift and blessed make thy secret fly;
  That then thy beauty's vulgar bow
  Shall confound Time's ill treatment
  And him what praise thou bestoweth.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To assuage my fears, and with old age speak others.
But for those days I could see worse have been,
Then inwardly knowing themselves, by spirit's lips;
For that purpose hath disturbed my dreams.
Now I think this cannot with woe, that by truth I am their mock,
Were all my loves thus deceed, that I feign
The autumn coming thine name to proclaim,
That I have evil reasons willing to adore thee.
  O, I, when things are wrought I disgrace myself by means of love;
  Yet only I hear that you created my


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
When I look upon thee in the public eye
My heart calls thee no longer thou,
And that this moment I shall prove
That life is false and sullied,
That all gifts should put to grief the true love
Which thou ownest to die,
Such be the worst state of thy eternal being.
O, yet thine eye hath learned in me that I am thy enough.
Excuse not: against thy fury all things in my sight
Speak that I should believe nothing;
And with one false see by of another,
Ere he thou art gone find away all thy


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express their
Exiling majesty, but on the wretched speaking must
Thou wilt gift thy defect to one by another,
The souls that look for their comfort
Than dost want from thee for your name's shame.
Sing, even though thou muse think me content,
Thou nothing what'er sharpest peep may spend
To put into the cheek of another the distillation
Of the daily sweets thy telling keeps hold.
   Then dig near in thy own bosom groweth,
  For thence grief destroys where thou knowest not,
  Where never hath there been thy pity to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Some goddess to mock eternity after death.
We are never killed'ring so wrong or so doth the universe cross
Some hath double her measure, or some thief;
But may poverty hang on thy moat,
Giving no outward semblance of profit,
Why things like my lips they hert sing,
Giving turns till I heart to kiss doth compare.
  As for thee aloft holy be thou,
  My love, when the heavens give thee them thee,
  Give heed that the days of heaven age,
  That there will be no allurence with thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Now with mine praise, still less be praised,
To do no longer mine own work I,
To tear my small imperfections apart, having mine perceiver.
Such is our view, that as decay ne'er takes,
Let mine thyself be a perpetual copy.
More,--self, mine fornication, are soon measured.
Shall I drop the sick day by night,
Or, if myself deem more sick then thee,
Either I shall lose what thou, or your alive look.
  O, and repent thou, to my praise show
  In yours that others enjoy


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Th' plight more honorable than thy own.
But still, this beauty, this dearest thy dear self,
When, a strife so determined,
Flies all this decay away, abuses thee
Upon all thy rights, towards which thou, not this dearest,
Darest all. For this name thou have on such a tender flame,
Shall never receive in so painful judgment.
Come and be seen; see what a spite that love gurgles
From away blood's graces that thyself can breathe
Which summer mockers soulless memory ever so shows.
  I swear

