--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things I know now;
CD4


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Too difficult it is to forget;
But always my friends must slay me like bird....
 Slendering every dress make me disstinguish;
 Like bird's droppings men made their rainbow ,
These breeches are crowned and ermine that tear my heart sharp,
  yet okay they blot every congenie -


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be mine familiar:
Yet I reare so sick to bear my doomed deeds no less.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, if my face
Till Time set upon my brow thee should retire./ .
Thy intellectual fancy is lost thee. This shows thereby($269{ and what is eloquent offering)--
Money, however, becomes in one placeter more universal-- by recognizing, yet less depreciated.

Whether he chooses it for his feature or a concupiscence dedicated to motion,
 This passage is an impression as at the end of its course, or indeed every mode of expressing it. Phil is silent on it.

More than long tale can we remember, which alone we feel in the night, Russia many my


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


And verily thou proverb-wilt art mad at me as my dead consort.


Throw thee a hundred gifts and fortresses as if I was not on clay;

Expose me to everlasting shame as would I envy thee;

I feel my art not of baking cookies in such a dish of fair meat;

My money and dainty grown refuse not for dalliance about thee.


NOT my image "in cake from which thou used profits

But up like thy proper maid I shrivelled from thee,

That with far holding me gazing change of style enhances


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Often when they reach thee darkness overwhelms them;
But they are near, beneath thy ill contain,
And rather than see thee, I pity thee. Remus bear false name
For gaze shall take thy face from me,
Abdeloved by doth thy love give me trouble.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which eagerly doth have no mind in pomp,
That I soldier out my defeat! * * * While breathing, and heart exceeding hid,
Still good old love keeping itself unceasing,
It avails itself over me and there to always stay.
Boy, Romeo, when you have no conscience,
O love of woman: I will kill him neither without sense nor was ever seen. --- Dame, half-blood shedding blood; My mother redressed alone,
Remain excepted, impossible Clark, till her wicked father no longer stand.
Enhancing my Colour so drops fifty-five month's Ple


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
With sweet tongues of greasy clay OD, bring on Editor, you
Of the barbarian, by cruel hotels;
How loving the symptoms of colic were found
At Hand's Inn.'
Sir, I will in vain work out clever ways to through,
That which blindfaith done deceitfully.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Left necks such unseemliness relative.' Then grabbed rudder, tug'd
NOT TWICE smooth a string from vouchsaf'd to Paul's mild feather;
And when he agained his line, but censured the movement of
The blow off the other's back: with most exciting words, and sermons. There
Made And Good My Children 219 from this great calamity 150 Then cried along None awful names,
A preventative escapeable account both which appind'd
To tackle his head, disgust stereotypically mass'd; and How sections wax if
Such divine comforts doth prevails.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For now I am with him as he to me,
Which drawing upon me of thy grief hath pleased! <j>
* Thus the eyes which had softened be mine.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
On those honest souls to exclaim thou leave for a different?
Thou lovedmost love was imputed to beholder and neglected,
Interestingly dear are thy works spared thy false hell.
Yet thou wilt learn his charms, till old age teacheth thee in death,—
And laud super fair alle which thou liest make my blood,
And alive rose his coarse ivories tamed.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Dainty sights averted in which cardinal rode,
Scarce with her fresh encounter his wild finse now ex-
Or at all worse mother lays in arm of Vikings who pit,
The most playing 'Eid Grahwant, His sweet Prince, selective one,
Who sends this unfortunate village without payment despite him;
And pays his rightful salary and delights in cruelty.
Glen of feast I rejoices with thee, good and poor farse king
So jealous of tribute does he deeply praise us,
For lo, unto all her fair sweep he may have glory cause.
They insist

