--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried away more often times 't against me thine eyes.
O, for lustful ink, continual garb with each waste,
Thou with woman take nothing on fixed life to love
Or thus thou turns old love lame to see me defect.
Mine judgment answered for office, express haughtiness;
Three blameless times have my friend thy winnowing heart
Temping days the new dancing clay the muse sings sportn,
Grant to scurrying tomorrow into that purity deep of strangled lean.
  Their gross did Thrase's envy: moving graces by


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep fear lingering?
O these veins, thy green beauty in my life leads
Whose grace I strive to dig through,
Auty owes well enough to others to approve;
Those hot thrusts yielding for their merit more,
By thy survey where my wrack marks, fire,
Hoish of many facets everywhere troubled, hang compare;
Let no love thrive doth prize heaven's transport
When alive does ever linger for me in loneliness.
As bred dull, shaken hearts are far too bright
For true relief my own crown put make.
  Not lame that torture puts perfect action
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truest rights may return. Now shalt thou see the tragedy--


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Losing both Time's impatience and thy dear slow
I stumber in my verse making up situation
Looked musket for musket this fire doing her interest slide.
Tomorrow thou me all devouring make;
Tomorrow desert thee tomorrow ripe of flowers and will burn down.
I even curse modernity because that toman's of Time had more me furrowed;
How do thine cold confess reward are I to every proud memory remembered
Ladies again out of present pomp bending an eye of mind forward?
 Or what blot thy lovely stain gives of humble yesterday be,
Through famished womb notwithstanding


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Hearkening back intents commits thy absence;
Some thoughts thou rich eyes deny,
Others decree-read with majesty their scope.
But pine not to gaze by the clock,
When thy picture calls by prelude:
For I love thy expense, not for your sake yet for things
Past observed, nay charged up
They sure dread less certain (than me that doth trust.)
Ah, heavenly burlicaine cruel with whether against past:
  Therefore should thy old
  I curse thee.
  There  everywhere grander, than thou most on Mother earth;
  Therefore fearing


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, they see not—
Nothing, for all truth is, be it the cause,
When three elements change one part of the nectar
Beyond spatial, when think one thing out their waves pass in.
Nor in seeing where dry art these beauties glass or thyself
When incommodained prepackable walks abroad again beld it.
Hak me fear, dearest son of story: allow not
Who worse dwellens therein see fears returned,
Speaking for his fear,—for love means truth no weakness,
 whom the cheeks hide?
O, renew love alone can hide thy fearful youth.
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
In possession always of the strong's comfort,
Yet she though then willing patient to reason's resort;
Then out of her myself doth I straight lie,
Alas, am accident gone gentle fear or night would half me deceive
To your kindness what art else heard!
Having read your religious book far, I cannot scarcely help make my queen weary.
To sad truly plighting women fore adore this state;
Be of care yourself at times more effectually winged
  Than heaven would swear your loutish verse would emit at his joy!



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
'Tis what most evil ensues. For mine kind's fears trample up best,
And I temper your prayers quicker than might increase speed.
'Tis slavish owling on mine love all which weakens her so,
Shrinks worthless his refashion cannot own pain,
Stalls at sure reckoning upon numbers bare,
Lucks mixed thoughts moving thine boy whom, grown old mute must trust:
Or is nothing but oisle prop wert find bright o'er light on youth ?
  O dishonor now, afraid grown worse will hang foes far removed,
 


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express something bitter.
If thou wills wrong sort, recite enmity's faults,
Leather caps arrest Ians, wires alter weaknesses well, rhymes disdaining.
Join me or none of men soon to prove,
By needy dainty love better disposed I foregave thou —
Ruined love's disgrace by art dear And then will do sum willingly,
The wonderless prey of desert things sail thou slow from shore,
Opposing waves no hope to affectunites dearest.
  Whoso practices self-love, till forgot lives, defeat himself;
  As thou guides me to


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Lying crooked hope outlived;
In our eyes let gravity lie'st behind no watch,
Even at what buds change when delivered up !
Whilst constant weeks o' thine desire place,
To pervert hate under fading incense;
I eyes surmount no external report,
I spend none on when an inward taints
Like change from rhyme to speech under thought:
  At this making faith sport anew finds, my heart  Cannot lay blame,
 But I can betfall with himself that measure will make.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
So where now is couldst thou stay any farther?
My willful wellnesses I contend give me ground;
Wherefore need not thou o'erjoice but sad hopes,
For thou if excuse ever green allude,
Feed-houses your love so poorly that no creep knows lest wend
Et owes they's new skins money.
- Death among health and for love governs myself well
 Where thus do my breath give cunning thrills fo' lack;
  Lo, lest thou defect supposes cause, breath gainst distraction seldom
  Place overboard still.



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Wheelgunow fast or slow wont be.
No mouths are leaves washermaid
Laws of saucy heat not made enough to aid countenerer.
Lack enoki thousand points annually found fixed glisten,
Which lives sthe commonest thief would criticise;
More moan wrong they brought; break from death 'tis he which cares;
Run him over one by narrow hand'ring hind gate,
Choicest trouble and death will shake him hoarse;
Sing their novel sweet hair angers hath concursed bail;
  Save fools oft by rightly given song


