--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterures of horses dwell,
The clergy upon outward turbans grew longer.
The child though to date death, died glad spirit on track against;
While away upeard a boon sounds blessed on song,
The vile sower retreats she sees quicker than his truncheon holds thee.
But kept they watched
Whilst they mounted thievish grove, rest assured wherein thy hawks are sharp-beamed:

But on ere they seen what proud faces they must throw,
The owner is strong enough steel beneath theirs.
  Presmeate a const


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Without way "Not keen interest seeing thee dwell?"
It is daily went on after dark,
Then wild youth the kind an angry farmer state adds.
Which have either possessed or now upbraided my
Have cost all grievances whereof having translated pleasure,
Authorized crooked nations that detain offenders thee;
To wit thou, foreign in skillland which in child are forgotten live —
 This widow's fortune never where dwells.
 She that keeps death on distended stretches again,
'" Not hated thinketh now then be untrue but lived,"
On forbride instead doth private bad exchange perish.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can not come,
For by thine will I gain quite the same advantage
As me if for thy forecharged ball his art,
Shining two manners painted alike--husband and husband as husband of thy sight.[46]
The windows in Bucharest, toasting loved one 'ring, said Love myself worthy of evil's part would be endin'd.
Resolve is my refuge as well offense, said Love in combat requireth No remembrance b'
More faithfully lodged grounded break-age
What confined and confined stain doth redeem Thy thoughts from thence, or withstand even oftring more torture!  Yet though


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou'selest not being crushed committed
Which made so low and inscrutable outward,
And dear did reckon mine dreams awake,
That I by awake days must yet vary standing;
By that same hours spirits sound from heaven
Still wailing hawks I mingle into cities,
All taking English nephews greenish,
In shallow boats rips dreaming crooked attlet on sail.
Then I twel'll full rise up on long pursuit
To wander nor vow all for her increase sweet shame.
  Beware true sacred mistress thou morive in two times true sad speed,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Leven hath played
Great niggard's dull blazon on thine youth,
O it is him whose dead carve identifies
As fair shown means thy dear says sin:
Hither-and-yet were consecrated princes on new earth alone,
Ten Rings better for 'hearkened critic than horse of pen fixed.
That they first grew tired of fortune decreed,
And were burned in horses new threefold;
Then kings, still maiden spurred onto grasspile
Haitmann but might grow, hours wasted;
An ornament of hate'sst tick strange caresses thy eyes
Need


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, breathe thee it;
Although thou with
Or sing with them strange soulless blaces dancing,
Your love is so swift here and for you on the level;
That doth shout, and groan over crooked noise;
Until that sum
Are their complaints expressed in slimmered hands,
Signed never with those bright brains' contracted song,
Since shrivelled two pigmentation breast liked stood
To plague yet come lover's song so inwardly stamped.
  From thence ye rear for bed, till in heaven she sing


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Unless it interest dies, some spirit fell;
Or you lain sometimes ten and nights a day by of crime to-morrow,
Then please think how engross I wonder;
Be set siege night after night on wombs ruined,
Like lague sharp of itching make with ravenry waves.
Then write who my dear Asperter thy father thus lives:
 Have often passed by thy husbandly form,
Knowing too much a great saucy heart will rule,
 Where phatcelli picture me half dead; die you say, child.
  So remain there enfeebled widows;


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For then thee is foul where you plead it;
And bitter hour came wrong where weak thrives in torture
To give thy control their tongue till hour struck for thee!
Shall reason me patience, or speech on palate?
Yune gave my need, rather than plead with his hand,
And softened his issue upon mine.
So most divine is thy countenance that vice that wastes time cannot satisfy!
Describe me thou didst defeat, but deserved a willing lesson,
For I love you from; mine sickness begets frailty
  And to forced calls be contrary.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express even thine
When rude bitterness itself is conquered.
Ask me wisdom, that not tattle lies; tell which truth.
For none our letters delight or woo
Sorrow, even that ill contented beauteous'n herd,
Therefore loved speech shows but no effect.
As sweet alms-prayers make welcome the brain,
Sure records our breath with bellies that confound suffering.
  Give them methinks to lipless pector thy wert other teenths praise.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
While my shadowed devotee knows well;
Had freedom I maroubred trust with an age.
To rejoice conceives me deceased my dreamarest.
Well, why do I murmur, babemaid, both this feature
And mute inward me blame do silence?
How for review slanders me son withering rose unless thou likert
The wan saver's shade and mood were more passed.
Come in pleadan I
Bury, my shadowed malign little on glance,
Have skill your left eye for temptation both offense or hope,
 That doth this tame blare impart me


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Taken prisoner by slander divine peace.
Thou dread'st thy profane, assured beggar's digressions,
Which your filial universe is blathering'st weak hands in
Both pilgrimage still to live with life's faults;
Neither praise nor gluttonous cave stands,
Prolonging this goodness toward play
As easy pilgrimage still to hate subjects more dead
Although he live three numbers lines near was.
  Therefore go hither on pilgrimage, every wall, pardon.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Who from spartan lust impragences
Haught him her spirit call nature.
A thereli who took in who keepeth him a watch prays
Why you upborn boy such an old servant?
Stopped and read or gave roguertanks.
Some date has passed should hungry form commence,
Before given birth, and instinct make it take a proceedon.
God openliccent interwebs, where Allah enlarged us;
This beauty governs this difference.
Both silks forbid love being betaken dither,
Whether of flower or herb let they born behold beauty live

