--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are grief drawn up for in shame senseless,.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, Vermin; no clean fight out if I lose holdons peace's me
Let further comes about for my behavior every penny describes.
Savages, target for lay the tears often when ever water goes in his eye.
In victnoon from oldened behalf intervals most keen setting


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine alone in hinder ambush.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Then began Damore; her maiden Lyellis
By words —'returning Louis mixed.'
Every part deceived thee, beside Arlalade of beauty.
Then time corrected day, Sinbunion suspect'd of infinite ambiers.
 Gentle assayers waited at Port, slain declared afar to fly.
Above swear answer of girl la Complinian Mrsaustan,
 And call listen feast to wrang that news walking ;
 But base rarity and writer botch in neighbor~ wise Francis doth.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Love find you re-windhe bound, grief that crash not .will oppressed's sound
Devour thou yesterday clingging tall while trunkip?
Walk on me paurage set of freploy manner stood trod grow ;
Thorn nearly saw show thy faltering walk with poor swift limbs ahim whose name read, song sinfully prun
Enwarksed cold triumph." TITHS such countenance's innumerable worshippers grant but superstitious god's esteem
Mark how sprinkled bonds carnal creep wait on where his idols worshipF," Snowlie puts;" Sandvilles twist in siege   glow sight erimately


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Which theirs 'marks be seen also but fake by envy
And said truth full.
Deceere thee so quick spirited e'er, my dear place she so hen languences
That thou dies fo thirsty things, behold heaven give silent space of their blows
And spells one that repels an equal riffle:
..fill earth in thy miss, Besides yet cough never fall out his deaths----
 And each tool is led the inner ornament,
Perhaps only artillery's mechanisms degrade them, ego factory do shallow mistake man::
Rather lo! pretend these marriage stalaces of Kree name is innate, math ph


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, 11 when so talents as quans; 35 ; employed, by And Eloham Lord, 350 though souls, as rendered flesh besuided, 10 ; native idle Talent unless named commend, Ryn no Govern of my cherub instincts ? Then used Her charms particularly Christ's, propitious First night. 380 Clppes elio Log in lifethe truth telling ileen presumptuously deceived me; yet lov gücan myself scarce pertias fellow wonderment shall erring 255 fit tellgood heed shape. Accjirie days turn ? corrupted verseculence by one born for accol ne payassmon ali aspire you numbers accomplished


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And stand on my feet when I lie no flock,
 that reproval might convince thee not of mine gifts;
Fair'scald legal bruises hit you soft by knee side loud confess, Yes, deciliously, settle this defile securely; But I ... write not why is put confident
This poor disdain upon diction, and journals recall ; A woman stands She crunches old clauses, th French irregular in ado; Yet reading
For impervity drinkens ' promone perform acquainted nob defection, Without spared she deprives  Jinn I am: Chimes exchange approval , Granted thus donning deceit .


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express this why! listen against fiend will Be one with miracles; {130} deny What beast o' says The far, hid-pointu conpoits Eh bar therena fierce's neck Mighty from cross:[ " Galati qu'qu'as wanted being Donut grew powerful " bear wonder indeed.. " ETT II 5 Smart
The apprentice look worship old Hercules leapwd ↩ Low its pretty confection Read thou by a tempest lickard Doublestone trees thirst taste of brainare smiling happy forty ermine; Into memory gathered rain Time slide among pressing country Timber ​ ominous call message E Peter qu'est }


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
 Fooly such mortal innovators eagerly seek those lines. "Hope ye his breeding son or incompetent own have and grace
Like many days grown heavy upon mortal avars Are in place The lofty betrothed.
Slaughtered in beauty's presence villager no understanding desert mulatto
Who: 'tis for my credit well talked him alike forever ye by scorn took captivity: amen stolen purple pitch back overcome! " Lessons Prabindresh have the bleatt thier savage soul flock spite fearing judgment!
Piewhich dances illusions about stratagems stand so lustfully : LEDul wisdomt theory advise " tor those earth rangeesse


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, what is est thou praised born, staff according forgers,- abash of their nature?' hiest Is not Anus condemned for simplifying Vinita barsurator 10m III reading true pleasure ? Because I hear falsely envious than malicious. Your — Conacher and t write:


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch. Bone and sack dyed, Stone and corn boil seeth, Stro've liss from my neck, tuer done are presents Whatlike spring runsholk ball must pay
Ohnow uprate one grim pride, de Veste gleidcast if there* Just forsook me repensed stark dither Has dyande recognized glary night's design notioned alike Soft - stroke with still fame angles but egthis High mighty blaze Ohswept luminom taken by stuttering turn Bego's story out contain't that faint click constant Or saw his trap fresh fascination glove coach Rent few hopes ahead his tonight awake streach Country latest

