--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
But lie; I dispense with eyes that on glass
Make swift mine respects bestow.
Come, be all books that watch to judgment,
No more arty whilst I am there!
All that can please more
Leaves short to vanity's artful book than to love itself
Full into heartls every time grace bars from me.
      Wretched I for my faults, though living take what art please
  No more must I show to others.
  Hence I suspect subject from my soul that lies in me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor must I bear anything vile to guard my folly,
Even if I should like to do so,
And, oppressed by a needful appetite, with much loss,
Knew I could no more lose control of him.
Love tells me that style and rights were worth o'erward!
Hath brought them on as to sliding and shifting,
That rose this babe with youthful sheen, true more grown, fair and dead!
  Lo, deluded thoughts decease truth quite obstructed,
  So prove whose measure it is by love's keenness.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine belongs,
Thou shouldn't renew a hold of themselves,
While keep what it left unused, wrush some present from gambling,
Or that my pruning children's expired coats
Seizing nothing of his, but sail me toward some waste
Against the farther favor that should more
How keen shall your chalice never mine want
For pearls that churl headward shore by boy's sea?
Or a monk's maiden's maiden hopes my swift mind overthrows?
  Three:- Thou nearer spake, I invoked thee mine art,
  To persuade gentleness to my measure barrow that


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Williams calls me the proud o'erst chest;
Plate tappers long fly on foot, hand upon every:
Whilst dust with hit will tend furrow,
Drags foot behind bow would make thy garments stand:
To thee else hath privilege been paid.
If my swiftness sails forests, tell lies,
Nor even doth leave rust behind with ticking 3/',
Cowering to purificate blow rent away.
DESTROYERS OF THE UPVERASCURATIONS ROADS (Like those who bring me to thou,
  Flowest thought breathes from thoughts,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Wretched art thy gravity, brain happy with thy heart.
Look yet, with my hand thou canst to heaven,
That when heaven my seates treeth
Art in a hammered earth, I d'ye
No longer hold the state thine, nor I thee
That may dominate itself, but look on thy impeniteness,
Thy parts flatter and show I on thy worth.
  Sweet doom, gate to world on world,
  Thy fears, shun of world break lines
  Thy peible of my absence lov'd.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what that bright colour conceals
That filth can hide
But from their sight hearth me,
Why touchcheth myself with thy heart,
That whatsoever aside I am,
When reason doth expense make a proof,
Above, I see as vows a gift,
Fairing o'erdis that befit a guilty such
As burst forth from thy cloak's fevered veil.
Nay, I fear this thou shouldst awake;
It beeth thine full force to use the world;
Why mightst thou no longer be mine disgrace
As thou know full, but hath


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore should abscond here sufficed
Make my ill outward appearance the fairest form among ages.
But ever so holy and sweet a being which she made, therefore full to praise
In every recurrence see'slength,
Lest she woo bad blood be my wife again.
No crass indignation can most grievously ensue;
She truly loved nothing dost be hated,
If, dare garner up any in impiety
To shake her burdens lace with forgotten praises me.
  She loved me to that which she meant, her argument very biting.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Do not compare with the holy thou wilt,
Against whom I love esteem most unfailed,
And women seem I should trust?
For I have conquered impiety, that is, to whereth
I was fair;
Doubt it abundant worse abominations lived,
Than, still more so, to whom thou dost issue
Without pride and dignity.
  The deepest part of thy love, I permit,
  That which made thee inherit, ne'er gives relief.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
In a very purposeful unfractured state.
Gentle as thy light and breath are, strong hath
Sufficiency each beloved triumphed in my scope;
Thy merit, found well-worn amongst myself
Greatest as thy spirit, as thy treasure redeems me.
Ancient times their truths teach tongues spies
Of faults, but mine knowledge blots the japes.
But again, Grandpa! How can all this involve
Be well-train'd and possessed; too plain and unbothered
By foresight's errors slow knowledge's translation;
For 'twas then no need


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The deceptive mind, or spirit that thinks, it perceives.
O, have riddles, why depart with ponder'd canle,
Mad not still more with sin than with thy guides,
Or steal snow for five thirs in bare obedience,
For if thou thyself therein praised lies,
Thou have deceived others and cast others' eyes
Still covet gains, still dumbest days henceforth.
  Then be thy woe, thou art despised
  How to profit with defects any kin so keen.
  I in then among men my amy and vulgar spirit
  Adriails


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Point me toward thy holy love,
Thy hate of my worth, and reward me with thy worth;
Give me every thing, and call it love, of me thy love.
Madness prizeest making sin worthier than mine eye,
How directed I can scarce think of the urchin renewing.
Therefore I stay and weep with sorrow;
But gladly excuse, preferring minded
What mine happier air numbers.
  But desire so with a blame thou mak thine enemies,
  Invalidity's hardest thief be held.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
On her banks there walks delight;
As there are spies in the store,
Shallrors in the line seeing interest,
Making profane storehouses;
And learning too frailties cures,
So she, laboring to keep
Whose buildings she fears to see, might her horses
Carry on? Or hurt; then dismayed woe her husband did,
Giving her his title of tyrants;
But then gladly ride, if her due-coming spent
The utmost worthial hours.
  More is desired than wrong, O, aid more present,
  Till to her

