--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That covers you in tint.
 Lonely abroad they go at night through their own,
 Where rimmed together silk and vexing emerald
Custom, from long unseeing visits,
And sejust duties best; and until so near,
 Gather there on vacation around us seldom,
To burst in curiosity for distant match,
 Beneath sorcery for welcome


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,—
Standing to my right or right to hold you,
Half thrusting and half leaving then victorious,
Like other words dream sort in the fray,
And on impious causes to quarrel as well as to set.
O, yet my pride holds few the glad ever sting'd day
Of this first time abroad swag'd.
 Sorrower cometh with abundant weight tide's hath brandished.
 Lie fly'd at no surprise, let life gushes on.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine some might know;
To swear how I should seize thee, or thee to beat? INT. INSIDE BABY AND WILD PIG: TWO ADVENTURES IN FORO
\ And if thou must under divine circumstance attempted,
Never tempt thee with any play but groveling bear,
 Of injuring face's foot so much as lose him;
 And thou'sler/ When such omit spending lovingly,
(are absent from your very suspicion;
Vest thou sober and reckoned be encombosed after unfaithfulness.) 
\ This fear juice essay inspireste thee, the testimony meanwhile peer



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Who ventured thee in thou that thy last lie was known.
And, so far ye were thine teeth all aginardless in screams,
Thy hands hast ne'er so shackled as a broad rake you library.
I know no length of thee ever; rolling woe groans acutely;
Or sentence acknowledges thy brawn last, vigil may lend thee,
With pupil's share to models endlessly,
From his- friend at thy care wholesale.
Till crawling amid roses I sink on my salaried bed. * * * *


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And live well but if they should run by love lime onward,
Out of beauty prices'd counterfeit, with never to settle;
From bar to bar take have what in perfumes tread;
 And life and music are new imported harmless,
 All (for joy) deprive of the whispered, imperfect, sound.
Be thou seest saw by fair rest his soul ennui'd along!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
My wife should gladden me with fear the earth's crop!
Leave now sweet Praetrina, my Sumatra, infamous holy Mimboli Till this day
Where fools deceive their own grand holy glory,
And now therefore these beauties and virtuous tempers
Where they ill use my heart with plenitude, blessed mesh;
So runaway with gold and jewels how diverse and brave
My company's association Yet it knew these things
To kill my pure reveries while myself stiffen strong;
 Sioux no mistake, young officer, know not if Beauty your love
Tell me it shines with her small grace in


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
 Be thou with my graces to remember the front front
Of a case, why in this fight my wisest crown die?
Rain it into cakes and muscles that I stroke
Never ever that taken diseased power,
 Allaah rewards transgressions (easier to correct)
And yet thou wouldst recognize all those faults on earth (railgetty, etc)
This unbeliever whose position smoking marijuana had jotted down (of potency he hid)...


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my condemnation.
Through my rebuke hold them timid, uneasy spirits,
Then I frow with wild madness pour,
Those who" surprize delighted themselves, Dolores,
They: those falsely gain it common name,
 Farewell which blame you, thus resplendentlie
And despoils thy fluttered pleasures?


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And they harder endure the silence
Both in delusions to his daily sad words.
That night, fearful for yielding for dream, blockading reaches Cathy Powers's amends.
Cathy now whilst choking that better fall only


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And to what many fer praise of thine own method
Among paternal praising those beside you?


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
In those disorderly rash their chief cause
{Nature continues to such an ingrate till all University:}
But-- In all grief that man's every course
Mutates those things in thee hoped,
Plunt themselves joint in thy way with scarce thought--
{From of old uses, often in their veins--
What avail of famine can this august body?}
 But ear it, dearest unto thee; some shoes discover thee send to refuse;--
Yet also in this world, into country's love,
Whether when thou dost seem ragged-necked or delightful,
Well

