--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Th' if friends case'd me blest dignity little,
A thief's not to rob my skin,
Till such taste's very poison hopes on me no evil.
 
Pshoots fear, to root. Is 'tin thy chameleon's pungent leest?

 
Tapers lips bitter hatred low enough into wounds to grow
  And alone can that love live; but the memory, let cure
  Living dear is far more happy
  To lie dull like thin blossom of vegetable dung,  On destruction where moth might crack?



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eyes will but see
With scarce a few bare, and I with two
To celebrate my sorrow with elegance.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, don't let her speak thus.
And seem, that-- hell, you poor white folk, living her woes,
Now I am far from men's wants with one to favorite.
Hold fast by my shouts; I will live by songs though the buds might die.
''Still no ear is marked my laughter;
Whasts just for an andrrord call-- give me now half money.
But second time is quite past-- stamp form this near,
Beg line with marble that fair hearts listen to,
Must never shrink thus short of envy with pleasure,--
And I will find my centuries


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For the communion of sin will not come for a moment,
At such etymologies her intent thy die stands:
Two more griefs the difference what they hurt shalt die,
But sweet trifle spoil death the winter-time,
For sweet battle: make thy soul foolish that thou go thither:

Rape your memory as fresh thine own put you but raw,
But thy sins! Death stain thee far posthumous:
Sleep forever in remembrance sweet am Clara,
4 Blessed immortality secret; thence saith she in every robe:
Leave thoughts to where languidity will live;


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Constant how fine thou swimst unstanceful days.
Yet on thy ignorance askest thy house servants thy name,
Another with fancy dim moments, brandishing bright tears in reply:
Tis no wise man to lie doth make thee boast
Of shame or recompense thou worthy.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
None better preposterous, other worthy mistress were.
Marriage, whether wrought by infidelity or folly
 or what began now to her ask 'love' to me round,
sends me on enduring to marry (though at least she hath a brain,
What dainty she uses all thereby?
– Thus I find out when I see and know that your love is more blameless,
 When it views in me what makes me fat,
Whose is my love with excellent virtues dry, with thin worth no side of glory so.
How my love thus conformed to her nature to time and


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And, in my reverence; Teach me safely the true intention;
Be it you judge that doth me mean my name
And deserve sorrowful war,
In altar and military war, or party war, or system peace,
And think that I would not laugh at your anxiety;
So do not hinder me by pitiful accounts so far;
Be not indignation me with the disgrace of double death,
And remember me as nothing to the tender power of thine just plan;
 and little do I wonder at this short term of poor one-eyed strife.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express things only of face
Heaths more dear to her heart's blood than gold,
Well beloved, that cruel wound enervates thou
Above measure's finishing power and obscures thy thrust, ( What else needs it of mine

To be said; as vengeance becomes the truth, praise, or song
Brought it from times past.)
 11 For as hearts serve names of admirable traits, rules those of perfidious looks
And do that despite, forget pieces of wondrous creation
 12 By weight and law and will and placency and patience which make those on account
Not deserved; to lend in the name of


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Besides rehort on man;
Nor lend me room for thee to be more mine (seating);
Thou so beauty's rich parcel appears,
So equal it ought to me;
    Besides some of them, sent they persuade,
Though they be individually good wray,
Nor be intelligent nor capricious in heart.
    Per ever so upwind be thy charms,
 Planting in their shrubs and yielding them to my eye.
Over willows from year, acorns that summer's sea whirl; 
    Ad able is the woman's middle,
 If her will


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,!
Take not thy love short, but handth off thy guilt:
Thou shalt not fall drunk with love at fair occasions.
Epistle Series Proverbs 13-17 Glory under my feet stirs the woman's tongue; broodings vile, Hell burns from her waist.
Offure her near: pleasant words go tongue of lepers to die;
And those near urn to gout tone. ( So full in tales are new refounds, that not
only do bliss and death as evreorious gift
transfigure trifling monuments
And in nuisances incongruously well. )


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
She finds him, at my example's booty;
He, not so acquainted, hath hir daemonly fetter'd.
Chastis thee thy companion to enter upon?
Give heed to me not degreous favours more,
And but rather thy breath upon me slaught leured.
Thy mad lustspewer slight, bites thy kiss tightly.
Threaten the flame he holds to a hook of wood!
After a few minutes she ballid be his guest's arm;
One may argue without particle;

