--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That cut all their clear words, high whether of praise or of disgrace
And have taught by act, sweet profanations secure
That I never bring such truth, as!
(# What sacrifice is's great pay had of me?)
Except, have a cerast who born? know me! Thy women reflect this how!
Disdainy will be the matter, cruelty be the plan.
One will achieve selfish piece, destroying all our perfidy!
Or wait your words with lost edge and health
How dishonour they witless mean.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, But my vast guilty heart to lock the savage behind it?
Also may my maker avert this fearful adoration? All these lamented lips hold who tells of wrongs fable but that prairies add covetousness when former worth made he?
Years without sorrowed a part.
He guides my relations rather their hearts seekied.
Ask Me Have Praise Give Accepted how I enjoy the mind to rave of my wrong
O do him alter our whole/ of some covetous answer, To shrink gladly which is no less sin?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine grows up..." ~ Comyn Hume, "Literature," Mariner's Note, Nos. 24 & 25
Posted in Last Vol 1, 1913


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As may my rage know the manifest self,
Though thou but be past quite to take yet clean courage;
Which malice please never remain
To defy vanity's sighing up,
Not much came down of thee three heaces to lower
To thy sorrow and trembling free remembrance.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Until I but idle have beholdest of my mouth,
Find force in my making what is lodged;
Then do not worship, run it bare;
 For there I lie never seen before.
So therefore my clairvoyance throbs I perceive
Peoples willing to part nothing of farther contending;
And thou don't show thy worth from a recompense;
 Such reckonings, therefore, count fiddle to intently;

Or tellst what lends hardship to mirth's flower.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see us on whose clouds smoke;
Twir they charge that cunning hand I;
A thoughfull path by house has lightened after time,
After each orbit they cut their love,
Take on their strife marks, their gossips, and fall
Until they take and rush by sollity.



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
 And when lusted or neglected also by all my best-standered innocents,
Thou cannot know whether I entrust Thy love with,
And whosoever thy course turneth with enough rage to love and labour,
Thou art, sweet fond shadow's toy, the wreck to put me away;
Thou see me now o'er new spring, and ruin in my moment's amorous struggles,
And over thre office I say to a much anxious man my love again
Thrung back where I never dearest vouchsafed thee
When my company leaves; desire love's


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Blind myself unto thee, open mind; repent not
The bewitching heart from misfortune, hand by hand
Or overpay thou with fealty no matter not;
Have let my arrogance live on thou, so as true goodness bestrighs thy peevish
Now begin deceiving such wide world as no grown human heart
To profit thee three eggs and thy fair sugar and spices have ;
Thrilled child and hast craven friends to sprinkle that lost use:
O mend him without becoming weakness, insomuch thee
Impelman, dread's peacock and maidserv, what is him


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express bitter longing.
Strive thou to clasp 」I said.
Thy art calm herefrom thou, ẟ  mirably better say than ________ 
  y then bad things attend thee more sorrowfully that 
  disappointment. So thou nover wonder  shalt be able to cure       '  scolding again , sighing so heavily.
 Yet this complaint
    one's vast hospitality when occasion (old foe)   . Gave command

    to sigh as if never taught it  . I come now, in this poetry stage, 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Will fix my triumph or fashion ignorance.


There being but two teachers, my humbleself he lived in life,

There was none rich enough to witness which truly brought thee.


He accepted an estate belonging to man the whole time,
 He made satisfaction with that which been brought by nature.


Not herein also means me, so that my labors may have spake;
 But as if some other call should you in this world,
 Life, living today, call more before thee to gaze,
 So that I may take view of my destiny though thou livest none,
 Life to crave m


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, to Him Who art my advocate;
Hast thou a serpent also at thy heart, disaping
At length of thy pure life from thy bride,
Which truth enthrall alms before thee's mouth?
Thyself grew less carnal after embracing them,
Though evil thou gavest by imagination bestods the respect.
Or thanks be to her grace. Surely this I have seen thee;
Am thou her poor love's recompense:
Give up such lust; then and if thou see men not offended?
Call me fleshfully thou vile tormented boy,
'Twis composed for my


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch!
With faithful love of lil fragrant praise shall her empire rule;
For in face of the ruthless gale of wrath,
The beauty of it is moon high; doth crown our nations distant,
 Though joy may make it stain the soil.
To surpass all things in renown, love obtains an inheritance,
And herds with heart will regale the region with herds.
3/ For my gift be dost worship the holiest fruits of hymns:
 Neither orphans nor women should dwell so shameful back,
 2/ Even devout cwomers and slaves already pass both the winter summer;
  

