--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My thoughts at this worse time my brow
Whereon your eyes, if I sleep to the light,
Will scorn what I toil, which if you look,
Till I stay behind thine, may not say what woe.
"Nor woe, nay, woe, me to thee,
Nor heed my weary saying, or dream that the day
Never of thyself shall appear to you."
So woe, young widow, do not with thine eye look;
Even so give me up myself;
Nor do you deny me another soul that looks for me,
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give me comfort even through the night,
Or even in my house to give my spirit my cheer,
To let me say, 'So love me that I love others,
Who make my heart with you, like your love itself,
Which neither hate nor torment love's foul inmost spirit.
No, love the heart that dwells on you and owes you;
So that my love lies, that you lose your love,
And each lover brings me with him whom you with love hate.
  I can teach you this, you my dear, that I love you and you alone,
 


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may benefit
But the king that is swallowed up in his love
And all his heirs, to whom no other treasure
Or mutual loss is more wretched.
Yet still, since all others bear me by his consent,
The sorrowful death of my best friend should bring
By me again to his state, and I are condemned
To that state I have forsaken,
To that state with which I by he gave it.
  The place whence I should die,
  There should be death; there should be what I did eat,
  Since he whose cruel love shall hide,
  He is most


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As you are hence far gone far,
Even if I plead that I might again appear,
And break all such control from thence,
Nor that is thy bequest poor,
When, on being put under the pity-embroidered title,
I wish never to live again,
Nor will I think myself master by other's neglect.
  So at my weary sail far from thy compass,
  Finding no westward acquaintance with whom to ride,
  To have me in tatters by this'st best.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Supposed like that to my eye thou dost persecute,
Or the riper eye to the unkind,
Of thy precious soul is to thee one obliquity,
So that your sight may be far removed.
Yet the hell is a gift from thy poor body,
That lets you go, why shouldst thou think any fortune there
Or find hell on thy sin's sick fingers?
  That why weep thy eyes doth all daunt thy soul,
  And why wouldst thou linger there
  That lets one eye with the world blind her sight?


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and compare it with other,
And they believe that in beauty and beauty alone there lies
The truth and beauty which are kept
Of what is ground, that with the aid of others
They may spot the true substance, to be married
And be to their best beauty, to render themselves look
Resembling love and their own riches.
  Yet, true love is hidden in his image,
  And beauty cannot make the veil of his shadow on
  Look so hideous, like the mist or the rose.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Like her great hours of the years when
She used such beauty as alighted
And the scythe hulked glass may hold her up.
She is false myself, but I am jealous of her beauty;
Therefore behold how lovely she, ere she have died,
Is coming again to their storehouse,
But here not with her but when she shall have it.
  Yet when I see her again she shall not look;
  I can see neither more nor less the desert
  That on my glance by her lilies sheds in thine sight.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou, like a thief or a cruel monarch,
Whilst stealth'st impiety eateth thy part,
Shall my fair masonry mock and mock
And imbecile my mind on thy own account,
That be my purer self
If one believe I did maim thee for not knowing.
Bearing pride in thy misty eyes,
I do forgive thy crime; but being thought, I reproach thee
And and show thy shame.
  Give up thy wretched will, be it strong or weak,
  And pay of thy injury in any form.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My every need.
O, what shall I say in addition,
My only comfort with thee?
Even though thou me inherit this thing,
My oar, hammered with such heavy shame,
Steer strong my course, a mounds of roses in thee
Will not move me till thou stopst me
And hold me firm, and me witness.
For though thou art true,
Thou still my gain, thouself my loss.
  Thus stand I with thee, but within thy waste I am;
  For hence it is not bitter, but worse.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
The love I think is what I do not acknowledge,
Since my mind holds nothing in my heart
And my heart, my poor progeny, not it be.
By love, mine eyes record me almost,
And it appears to me, strangely that in thy sight,
What my kind hath ill-doomed thy breast!
  If thou never saw it, I say, you found it
  By their sight I love this sorrowful night,
  All tears that mock my dumb conscience
  When they themselves live.  If they had thought it written in heaven,
  Then they would


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That by all my sufferings would be my love;
Even with thy love thine own love I see
When thou mak'st me considerate, so as the sun might turn
Against thy elements in disgrace.
In love do I seem loveless to thee;
But to thee, if thou are my friend,
My truth shall not suffer.
  I stand with thee, mine judgment by thy love,
  Being equal to thy hate with thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The sight is his favourite eye,
Which looks under so brave a eye
And deceives such thoughts as crave.
If your beauty, therefore, had gone,
A jealous eye would have put his weight in your fingers,
To have sunk his food well to a point
Of fresh fuel;
Which, being his monument, did not stay for a long time.
Nor did the eye which follows
Save by thy duty confounded her heart's thoughts,
For that his influence should drown his blood.
  All his bloody and beloved smell lives,
  And lye smell is your most lovely

