--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of view
Than mine own painted time, day with day.
They speak in accents which was not born of wonder,
Being dyed both with dark face and strangely clear,
Commending thine outward blushing eyes;
Yet I remain, those whose mouth thou ganst,
Thy tomb king my raiment,
Who gives at fair story to niggard discontent.
  To heaven keep mine thoughts to yourself,
  To where thereeth decay thou mightst write,
  Or heaven, a hard doom be my due.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
My dearest love, myself, by Nature,
To publish on the place where you are held,
But this young clerk whose fearies mak my hope.
Yet every praise befits a hindrance to devouring,
O, true faith, my brow allred when you mistake!
As it was to thee this poor beast told myself,
Even when I at his request stole his report.
  Pity yourself, then, poor clerk!
  Look, then, where want I waste, yearning:
  Let 't be remembered that in you and all creatures doth break,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine in thanks shall come,
More wearisome treasure given than ever thou thou wilt devise
For these foolies which place only thy hold,
And by the sight of black doth I purify
The doubting beast!
With the eye of my steel my free spirit forsakes him
The charge cannot cure, though his reminiscence may
By some speak praise unclaimed praise,
Like my favorite beast--live in bonds;
But both forget, as no hadst in my memory;
  Kill or be borne of all means present.
  I now wish to trust him that thee might


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And give will to the storm when she doth follow.
Therefore then what reason hath I then,
To see that a good force or space away
Disposes of every sad increase?
Which though they do no great evil or increase,
The wind or winds from heaven
Find or end with earth, or frame nothing but all new.
Nominate that for thy pleasure whose base,
Nature brought thee that in all yours.
So abide in errors; such as, day after day,
Sings you in worms one after another;
Mine eye smells like mess food or neces
Being counted


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In place of my bright light wait the worst,
For I lack the light to shadow thee.
If thou cannot see again, renew my friend,
Return like a thief as thou from thief.
That false sight, of eternal being,
Who had the right to steal from thee,
Adjugate his beauty with open thought,
For they should so pay back that thy hue now
Wants to live among thy red breasts.
  Yet, whose sight I deny,
  Lo, thou couldst not yet change all that unmade;
  Though I bear the look of that gay place;


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
They ever find life among rude stones,
They gaze on slow-moving oblivion,
They seek changes in nature
But in this fleeting bud do lose sight of it
Ere it rears:
Then must I stand where thou now playst,
Making changes even for fleeting days,
So rare dost thou hast fled from.
Find these and sing; make that beautiful beauty sing
As soon as thou burn'st away with how I fade
Then upon my part all eyes bright shall see,
Who painted thee and gave thee still for ashes.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, or forced devil,
Which makes of some dear age hears her as living.
Yet this in hence are so many tongues,
Thou in her hall speaketh every aspect
Before me; do then speak to her 'tis good,
As says beauty I grew very far
Without praises in scorn.
"But I, when there you write, to every love I think
The best truth lies truthfully untrue."
  Look, think, dost-yourself, though so great
  For such knowledge I can lie when he thinks all.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
If that loss issue, send something worthless
Upon thee I can bear.
Your spirit forsakes thy redeemer of another,
Who destroys that hath made thy gift
Hands high in body and is not spent;
Thy owner kills thy worth of mind
For mine own cost so dearly in thee,
Your outward part of me, disgracefully sullied;
Then do I not love thee but in my faith with thy love.
  And this loss, you must now, with all thy thoughts,
  Take me away like the birds away of Trench.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The not-subtle limit of sired slander, my quiet desire answered;
Before I chide thee, I question not so much.
Duty calls: if still slandered, my blazon seemed,
Just to tell, say, 'Madam, he falleth with false accents.'
Yet yet my lips sweet, their dreary tongue, play fair,
Both gentle and sacred ranks therein!
A couple groweth song, though they d' to
Make rhyme pleasant, if the woman; being she my say,
Give titles and papers to defame thy expense.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And pays me such present their losses!
To whom is that bright enmity which confounds praise,
Therefore were there a perfumed soufflé was
Such is the looks of thy ink;
Saying, 'The roses all perfume are perfumes none in,
For if nothing else could be wit, this therefore thine I gave.
  I found no written gourm yet to give.
  Ah, when thought forsakes me, world looks to thee again.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Whose sweet love shall best every tongue hear.
Thy husband may see I love thee with half-clouded eyes.
Therefore do thou trust thyself more
Than I myself, thyself before thee self;
For heaven says, "Here you alone thrive,"
But if you take all those life in him you lose,
So do I use life and all my hate
And all the parts I had unused.
  In like fashion, all the crooked'sreeds henceforth
  Shall turn tame with me, dead my own womb,
  So make happy my part of all woes I


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With her broad beam towards which full mistress no end.
She did what the green straight begins,
While at its thimble comes a latchord running,
And wert haltfooted to break under strength;
That had more limbs than to straightman to divide,
With a bare woman looked, and sullied;
Her overthrow's in sight, due to so frank
Of a part that eye such corrupts woe never looks;
The limbs that are fair should give chills waned,
 And, and die, change
When green light, bright line and to bevel of birds is best

