--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Hath this wretched frown in my eye,
Which in this world I see to be my own,
Which in the world of mine eyes
Is my grief, my griefing heart.
Thy love, in this world, is all my grief,
And yet, when I see thee,
The beauty of thy beauty I love,
And yet, being so, I know not why
Thou art in love with me,
  For my love is no more, but that which thou so love.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If I be in a state of weakness,
That I should be your love;
I should be your love's lover's slave,
And you my slave's slave's slave's slave,
And I should be your love's slave's mistress,
And you my mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress's mistress


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live
And mine own life's worth to thee.
But, if thou wilt forgive me, I will do so.
If thou wilt forgive me, I will do so,
That thou mayst not lose me.
Thou art my debt, my friend, and this my gift;
So, if thou wilt, I will do so,
That thou mayst not lose me.
  Thou shalt not lose me, but I shall lose thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than I that do not seem to be,
Nor in thy wish do I seem to be,
Nor in thy will I seem to be,
Nor in thy will do I seem to be.
But I am not in thee, and thou, my love,
Thou art in me, and I am not,
And yet thou dost seem to me to be,
And yet I am not thou,
  And yet thou dost seem to me to be.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy soul, which in thy mind is not yet,
Till thou depart from me,
Will, on thy part, be deemed thyself,
And thyself my slave, and not my master,
For thou art mine, my slave's slave,
And not mine in my thought, my slave's slave.
  Then I love thee, thou art mine, and not mine in my thought.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their hearts they see but what they see.
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And in their hearts they see but what they see.
So they think, they see but what they see,
They know but what they see but what they see.
  But they do not think of this,
  For their hearts do not know this,
  And they do not think that they see,
  But they do not think that they see but what they see.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That she might prove me wrong,
That she might say that I am a false thing,
That I am a fool, a fool, a false friend,
That I do not love you, that you are false,
That I do not know you,
That I do not love you, that you are false,
That I do not know you,
That I do not know you,
  That I do not know you,
  That I do not know you,
  That I do not know you,
  That I do not know you,
  That I do not know you


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Behold, I love thee so much that
Thou art my friend, and yet, on thy side,
My love is not confined;
If thou hast no friend, I will not have
To lay blame on thee for my disgrace.
Thou art my friend's friend, my love's friend,
And, if thou wilt not love me, I am not to blame.
  But, if thou love me, I shall be thy friend's thief.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy love's bitterness.
When I am alone, thou wilt never be,
For thou, being me, I will be
And I will not hold it up to thee,
For I will not be gone, nor be touched,
For thou, being me, will not be gone
Thou art my love, and I am thy love.
  Then, for love's sake, be thou not so
  As I, being thee, will not hold thee,
  And I will not hold thee,
  Unless thou be mine.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And not that I love thee with my eyes.
So, if thou wilt find me wrong, I will excuse thee.
So, if thou wilt find me wrong, I will excuse thee.
  I have no love, nor do I love thee in my eyes,
  So I do not love thee with my eyes,
  But in thee a thousand errors note;
  For thou wilt find me wrong, and thou wilt excuse me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The true love of thyself,
Whose sins and their thoughts thou mayst know,
O, but that thou mightst not know,
My love is that of thee, that thou mayst know
The truth that I love thee.
Thy love is my love, and thy thoughts are thy thoughts,
Thy love is my love, and thy thoughts are thy thoughts,
  That I may not in thee know.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The birds, for fear of the night's night's doom,
Do not sing, nor do they leap,
But fly, in a cloud of misty night,
And fade into the night's nightless night.
The birds, then, are not for a long time birds of night,
Nor do they sing, nor do they fly,
Nor do they leap, nor do they die;
They are, as the wind in a cloud of night
Hath fell, and thievish winds in the air
Than in the air do their cries sing.
  But, for the

