--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And doth not love me, nor hate me,
 Nor pity me, nor pity me, nor hate me,
Nor am I glad of thy sufferings,
Nor glad of thy hope, nor love me,
Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me,

Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me,

Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me,

Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me,

Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me,

Nor love me, nor love me, nor love me


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And when my hands, my lips, and my heart is to me
That thou and I are the same,
But this is not so.
Thou art my servant, but my sword,
That to thee and me to thyself
Thou knowest me, and to thyself I know thee.
Thou art my sister, and thyself,
Thou art my sweet child, but to me thou and I
Be mine, and to thee I am thy friend.
Thou art my love, and my delight,
But to thee I am not so.
And so I will


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
And suffer thee to perish.
For, I think, I may as well have thee as he.
I will never have thee again, and I'll have thee never again.
But if thou didst slay me, thou wouldst not be,
And I shall have thee to thy shame.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But let me hope that thou willest make me
And hope that thou willest make me good,
And that thou willest make me glad,
That I will be glad, and thou art glad.
But to thee is this all a curse,
And to thee is this all a misery.
To thee is this this all a death,
And to thee is this all a wretchedness.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The great lord hath slain thy face,
Thy heart in thy flesh shall not tell thee what thy death shall be.
Thy body and thy soul, thy love, thy heart shall tell thee,
Thy body shall not hide thee from me.
And I, O God, shall set thee free from all thy evil,
Thy name, thy name, thy name, thy name,
And the day that thou, O Lord, make thy sweetest praise,
Thy will be as thy grace is, thy will as thy life.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they will be as if they were to gaze on thee.
O my soul, I pray, to have thee to be made worthy of thy love,
That thou art of love, thy art of truth,
And thy love shall not destroy thee, but thou shalt love me.
Now, when thou art dead, and all that thou art,
That I may hold thee in thy love,
That thou art my master, and thy love shall never be,
And thy love shall never be so hated as thy love.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That I could be well known by my misfortunes.
But I will not, nor will I, tell her what my folly and folly
I do know, and will only say what I know,
That she will think me some thing of what I have learned.
And what I shall tell her will she tell me,
And she will have me to believe.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And I shall go away from thee in the eyes of thy mother,
And thy little youth in thy love's bosom,
Thy beauty of thee will not be so doth thy birth,
Or my sorrows, thy lamentations, thy joys,
That thou dost set on a page of love's glory.
Thus shall I die in thy love's pity,
And my beloved and my beloved's love's love shall live,
Where, though thou art not a boy, yet my eyes see thee.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express sorrow
And be sorry for the way you have made me so.
But if I am wise, I shall never be as a beast
Of joy; and I will always be a prey to all that seek
That cruel song of mine.
Then what may I say, that thou art truly to blame,
Thy words, and thy sad talk,
Be not as I love thee, but as thou,
Whose scorn I do not love, nor thy sweet song.
In truth, I have always been a man of good will,
For my own love is a refuge from sorrow.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I know that they love nothing better than their own,
For I love to hate them not that they love me,
And I love to love them that they love me.
And when thou art a man, thou shalt not be my own,
But I will love thee that thou loveest me.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love, thy own love, and thy love's sweetest tender.
O, but with mine own see, and my own mind,
O, but with mine own soul, and my own heart,
Thy beauty is my own love, my own beauty's love.
O, but with mine own name, and my own name's love,
And my love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love's love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
But, though her mane had waken,
Thou wilt be all slain, yet thou still
And wouldst no longer need thy own life,
That thou wouldst let thy nought fall.
Thou art, however, one of the worst men,
Which so many women dost go out of the way,
For, if thou shouldst live, thou art more than half.
When thou hast gone to that fair bed,
And found that thou hast dost stand,
With thy own body, as a babe,
But dost live as a mother, as a

