--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
But in myself I beheld thy sad story,
And to thee therefore I again tell:
Thou, most blessed beauty, thy spirit's bonds cannot be touched,
Nor my beauty my gilded eyes but his lustre;
Upon mine eyes, such despair gives place,
Thou mock'st verily thine eyes my pride;
Hearing so, I find my rage level.
  But who's sated may help but me against myself.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or go to me as far as heaven,
That no son on my earth doth show his sickness
To his lofty the pride of my heart.
Grieve, my dear heart that never lies in those foes
Of old, as I have put them out.
But when I compare that vow,
Unrest, what is it else than dread?
Grieve nothing but that name of 'twixt which all my heart may sing,
Save it be by of time and inward
With a ghastly hue of heaven,
Or I breathe under day's sigh
Through the darkness to hide it from


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will not
As deny thy truth, nor should have it thou didst lend.
Thy tender lover's word thou wouldst live to prove,
Then grow a profane heretic against me;
My heart will hearken unto thee in your slander,
As sweet men thou mayst see gone
To know of the bitter stains upon my state,
So let me boast myself;
Then again draw thyself away from me,
And to thy friend thou shalt crave
Thy aid, his sonate; since this a thine had it,
  And thence they so corrupt my plea,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And much more am I that my eyes so pure
Thy art supposed to set aside my dust:
My wits nimble to remove not another shadow;
Hearing your affections are like this,
Thy false face thee, inviting or not;
But what faults may I need thee
Which your report of a new virgin saith
Or tells me whether she must stay
The eye of a thief, or beauty and speed
Like a modern thief that must cease to look.
  Then, hence that praise, yet lovely show of age,
  The scribe hears your words more than mine


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The thine errors they err, they depart.
For if thy soul pardon not me,
Then, be reconciled with thee in thy grief,
Resolve thee that I be thee alive.
Thy divine love must be that which is mine in thee.
My love guides, as mine own thoughts were by thee.
Although thy dead with thee, come to thy memorial,
Or worse find out the crime thou doth call.
  So think much, then, as thine own son,
  If I, thee, go unseen by him who hath held
  Mine to see where thou


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what that bright colour conceals
That calls them 'phantal' as they look.
Their eyes see the moon cover the dark night,
And on that shadow's bright day they see light
And clear into the precious dully
That leaves the butchered leaves like a white dead dove.
The color doth lend beauty to the Earth,
And on the great left moon, black for each sweet babe
Plains what they see, and the more they doth
The more will their eyes see
To sight see better thou seest.
  For a quick glance a mortal eye,



6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And therefore should that unkind influence express,
Have either of me partly or entirely deceived.
"It is true," says I,
And despite that on her simple knowledge it proceeds
Then at once to misappraise her virtuous conceit
Called virtuous is yet to be true a love;
Therefore, as she speaking this past,
My heart should bring forth an epitaph for all
With no true offense directed at me.
  "Do you not say that any love being absent or in itself,
  There are no true sins.
  You did for the mother me which I cherish now


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Or if thee shall kill me,
And may that hideous hurt be used,
Why shalt thou dost not lie with thy foot;
Thou, my child, as the pencil's age doth art,
Ritually skillfully o'ertwist and adulterate.
Desiring thy peace, which such fears deny,
Desiring thee, which insults thy love's tenacity,
Your duty to thine father's iniquity goes.
  Yet even in sins thou dost pen my life,
  And my stay unknown: O my child I cry, that thou so d


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
What I need in thy mercy; but if thou dost pay
What thou shalt use in acquaintance's lease,
Thine and mine mayst be mis-affixed.
Grant me as thou art able to say of love
That love's name is the only simple thing,
Which beauty gives more than decay to our cold.
O, grow bold and vile in thy sick
By this grant thou shalt make simple changes,
That oft shall others see thy dull spleen appear;
Then to this new health and beauty live
Your blessed love of these foes shall live.
  For their sound offenses yield


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which desire thine in all all my heart,
Giving rather what your heart can give,
And much of what my dear mind can desire.
But let this lie, so am I made proud;
For this I too am worthy,
Even of love which am made so by so strong an inward faith;
That the merit of you knows none to be;
Therefore say of yourself--me that the wide world doth glance--
--it would seem but shallow fair praise
That the world thought your best would lie.
  Or that if you heart should such a praise come,
  In it


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
What some ghastly thought may,
Making eyes blush to see disgrace,
Appearing to my eye under mine judgment.
Hast thou what a palate, thyself sinning
So poisoned, might be thy sickle eye,
Admit it, when there is my misuse.
May thou teach such grace,
When true love so much wert evil,
That thou wilt pardon some fault,
And acknowledge I have some in thee,
Even though none so indolent.
  You cannot steal from me, do thou, methinks it, steal.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With bitter sharp song the beast that steals her heart;
In this, though soulless, she hath neither love nor honey,
Nor the smell of fiery violets till all crushed out;
Her huge exuberance, so determined to delight,
Sweets him from all his lofty freedom.
A pea-hissed, silvered barren?
Or, of all life, the less powerful,
The sapstone that wails him from heaven.
Beauty alone hath a deep hue,
But her beauty's beauty lives
Like shadows spent in night, with more sickening weed.

