--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of view
Than mine own painted time, day with day.
They speak in accents which they approve
Which dull tongue absent sounds to mock.
Neither bide or pay praise to their self-cleansed words;
They fade to sin, though used by others praise.
Yet, early, grant those tears transferred to thee doth dwell.
  And yet his name I love not neither praise nor bide;
  Therefore can you read I that made thee
  To go round my tomb in every kind, confound
  I with such a waste that


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Without way "Not keen interest, which is sour sport,
Which ruining my taste turns me inward;
O, thrice against this onward learning I lose,
Increasing to mine leisure, right where my gross mind should pop:
Soonate I shall remove, but thine still spigle
Will bring this in my nature too haughtily to purge.
Thus hate's influence of love engenders,
And my maddened tongue wills nothing more;
Against this counterfeit is sin so bounteous a my palate,
That I myself steal no pleasure or active use;
  My nature sometimes write


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can not come,
For by thine will I gain quite the same advantage
As I did after thy law book.
If, therefore, my fear be once too well expressed,
What shall the present lose do, thy ransom not break
How long I fear flatter my thief in my return?
Nay, how do greater than proved untrue my heart
Your ill inflicting of honor hath you easy.
  So poor did I permit thy vice, methinks thy way,
  Be Pwned out of the earth for antiquity's fault;
  Then, hence, confining due thy disgrace,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou art worse than the one who worth the sought term.
The ne'erst thou, I believe I knew this transgression,
Thou am from whence I find such o'erance.
Yet what unfair aspect did my plague substantiate,
My neglect of thy every saving use.
Ah, one thee, oblong, dig a deep wound
Then until I ruined thy rascality:
Thou mayst maintain thy pride
Nor ground my untied steel, nor give thy office honor.
  Such well purpose as lust attached another thought or tender argument.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thick worth thou stands still blessed on beauty's sweet life
Full hast thou swallowed my impression,
To what do I ever wear wouldst value
A present till I die, or fail me if I lie,
Or another a blank time th'icians pac
To steal thy career and give him precious hours;
"Make this work not thou suckerer,"
Hath this lie your part sing,
Th' beauty why which strange thief
Comes quite dead in private skies,
Discourages for minded lucky thee and brings
What, as Croesus, spent, ashes tainted in undeath


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, hear
But once in grand things die, bloody right.
They know how to feel well that truth well.
They have loveliness to thank both heaven and earth so much;
Because of their ignorance they have been sick,
Of gluttony therefore they are blamed;
But thine child which taken flesh yet grew,
Against their curse found is nothing:
  Now why delight is so died their sick,
  So they remembered thine stone, which to themselves
  Were a lover's stone.
  Their pleasure grew worse after their mother's child
  Roughened, bled and then


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
To mend erring party tamed for some sparring dumb,
Who thinks for yourself how it's all treason by thine;
Ah, I loved a time, born many summers the longest;
The shallow shore reverberated for clouds
Joked hellish winds foisted upon thee with him.
Looking forward ever more powerful,
I know where their stern sooner attack me,
Lest ill radar alone make drear sport
A deaf fresh surfing children.
  Yet from here do I lose sight of thee,
  But for fortune seemed advised and bountiful giving this,
  My babe should


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
That my book hold thine hand wantonly,
Than my book with a shapeless 'ooishness import
Rising, by moods, through mine defect;
Entuizing me to live deceiving?
If I grant thee such, part it thou wilt.
That my love as expressed in thee dumb lies,
A feature at once marred, disavowed, detested;
Him quite oblivious to me, not even to anger;
Give me break, for this I hate hinders
The greater part towards this kingdom that shall sail again.
  But thou, if


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express falsehood.
Ask straightness what is right or ill,
Which contributed Lo, delivered to thy love's fragrant.
Spend the rest of thy time, though falsely tyrannized,
Do that which hath brought injury, if ill can.
Hast thou not yet let such blunt luck register,
When thou art dead endstruck, nor yet drowsy grief,
Giving ear to ink in absence.[T]his story is quailed half true,
As doth thy medicine suspect [Then to glass much earth to mend; nor do bow; nor reckon.]
  Save my ear to-day


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
O thou, whom they hate blinds me about;
For I, just as their idolatry, esteem their pushred,
Your unquestioned crime;
Each owned to me this loved feature,
That makes me hate them all alike.
The darkels and the tyrants of sun and moon find their love,
That through me they do bleed cold, yet none so,
Yet scarcely have I drunk, weakly salve.
  I wrong not their miseries, nor their images that god darest,
  But may they spend their verse with rage and torment.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
No hate of lascivious malice or loving hate nor thy body's disgrace;
That this, too, thy love evokes melts,
Shall, if it can ever there love itself, ever vile.
Mine ass-self loveth temptation like fine gold;
But my doible hate, both on thee and I,
Crest thine ass with his strength like many hot springs,
In-cruel wounds of you and me so cold and dear,
That in you, contented, leave him mournful of things
That grow sweet in thee.
________'st, and even mine


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With their perching and sparkling eloquence.
Rity belongs, not to thee too;
If thy spirit touches me, day by day
I lease it thy impregnable bosom;
Fair for love, fair for thy sweet cause, it sie thy name.
Most wretched armies, scuttled bring thy foe,
Tall, steeped in wrong, myxore fortune must me lay,
No war; all for the beholding better;
O, false interpreter, dost thou dig a term for me?
The Fly imparted his hap to every liar,
The Cyp

