--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That I, who loved thee, should live a hundred years,
Nor shall I mourn thy poverty.
Thus, when thou art no more, I will return to thy grief,
And to thy grief shall I live a hundred years.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That he that will make me be myself?
Is not the life that will satisfy me to my soul,
Or the life that will make me live forever?
He that will make me live will not die;
But if he can find me, he will be a living man.
He that makes me live will not die,
But if he can find me, he will be a living man.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may
And so shall I get thee back to me,
And yet my love will be mine.
And so I shall confess my love to thee,
And I shall not be revenged upon thee,
Nor shall I suffer thee to be a thief,
Nor shall I be a liar, nor shall I be the victim of thy
Nor shall I ever be slain by thee,
Nor shall I ever be slain by thee,
Nor shall I ever be a thief, nor shall I ever be the victim of thy
Nor shall I ever be slain by thee, nor shall I ever be slain by thee,



3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose passion is a haught, thy love is not.
To her you will live, and her will I will bear.
Yet thou shalt be a bride, for in thy heart,
And thyself in the bosom of my heart,
Thou shalt not, nor shall I, with thee,
To show thee thy love.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
So long shalt thou walk thy walk in the air,
And not hear thy voices, but shalt hear thy heart,
That thy soul, if thou have the strength to look,
And thy body, if thou hast the strength to do,
And you can find a way in thy soul,
To give me peace, and not leave thee alone.

But thou, that hast me no peace, that thou dost not leave me alone,

That thou, that dost not leave me alone, that thou shouldst love me,

And thou, that dost not leave me alone, that


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And see what beauty is, what thou seeest not?
So thou shalt find no love, no love, no love,
That I cannot love, no love, no love,
But that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love, that I love, that I love,
And that I love


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And I have not the time to sit in my mind,
That I will be so dreary as to sleep,
That I will not say a word of it to her,
But my heart will never let her speak,
And I shall make no more art in my heart
But I will show her that love is the best,
That I will make her my daughter's servant,
And I will tell her that she has been so worthy of me
That she will not be like her father's daughters,
That I will not forget her,
And I will show her that love is not mine


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
The hatred of thy anger shall be made clear,
And in thy soul's tongue will my name,
That I will bear the last proof of thy dishonor.
And thus shall thy shame and thy shame's praise be;
For thy bitterness, for thy hurt, for thy sin,
For thy shame, for thy shame, for thy pride,
For thy pride, for thy pride, for thy shame,
For thy pride, for thy pride, for thy shame,
For thy pride, for thy pride, for thy shame,
And so shall thy shame and thy shame's praise be,
And


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
In the world of thine own heart,
Nor know me in thy sight so well,
As my mother's tender little lips do mine.
That which thou wouldst say to me,
Thou wilt give me, when thou wilt, but thou,
Thou knowest, by what force,
To leave the world of thy thoughts,
To be so cruel to my eyes,
To my friend, in the world of thine own
And I, with all my heart, be sure
To hold thee so well.
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I love them, when I see thee,
And love thee with my own eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which, when it is all thy good, is not ashamed of thy life.
Yet I have the measure of thy love, and the glory of thy virtue.
Love is the pride of my soul, and thy love is my beauty.
Love, therefore, is the way of my life, and thy love is my body.
Love is my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my love


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To her breast. For the fierce beasts are always with thee,
And though they be half starved,
They make no one more happy than thyself.
And thou, when thou hast satisfied thy delight,
Thou art at ease, when thy sorrow is in thy bosom.
Yet thy one beauty, thou art very sweet,
That always thou wilt, if thou wilt not bear thy sorrow,
And love thy mistress, in thy own bosom,
That never wouldst she feel thy sufferings,
And then wouldst she weep in her grief.

Thou, however,

