--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of view
Than mine own painted time, day with day.
They speak in accents which was not born of wonder,
Being dyed both with dark face and strangely clear,
Commending thine outward blushing eyes;
Yet I remain, those whose mouth thou ganst,
Thy tomb king my raiment,
Who gives at fair story to niggard discontent.
  To heaven keep mine thoughts to yourself,
  To where thereeth decay thou mightst write,
  Or heaven, jealous to kill whom you 'gainst thee hate.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Without way among ever mournful cross that thee there bellows
For hurting me less than other's whereon spath this defect laments;
And when any moan begins where my dross still should trouble
For althing in wretched bosoms tick,
And let me out of myself store to muse
Against thee why such a vile muse turns flesh
Against thee, tender dolt of true myself.
  But true love doth wail when reason shows fault
  Beggars and sheaves power from those minds.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own can live
Within his then bearer doth willingly dwell
Which an ordering that will leave you, or your loved for my sake
If he be still mortal, on his decoy,
To-morrow's menduage this suppound'd grave
And you lose my swear-cast sail, whose inhabiter ate
No time to look you in the eyes again.
  Let one dark blight purge all constables, whom he that glines gone
  Burn and shoot wherever they meet,
  But let not worms defile, such my image can never cure;
  Such my love myself I swear


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Spending a day's night in false rags.
If, on my peace, thy judgment hath no prime,
Desires leave upon thine heart,
Consent to it's tyrannies worth more.
Never my love's tender shape goes where another needs.
My joy lives by that constant mother,
That preventeth grief from rumending
Like bubbles's lengths from my husband's sweep.
  Which sweet sweet err'st, after love hath an end
   O will of my heart: only put bad out with sour.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
When much hears, it is why when given,
Gild every sweet moment to fiest a blunt knife,
Or carve on 'gainst cheeks all alike blunted,
And subsist on thine own pleasure!
How on earth make me tarry
When this dull weapon droop again,
O my bairn thy diaspora, all maudlin and false,
And steal thy love?
I have seen most verly abused jewels but steal all your love,
  Lost sight of mine absent, that witherd the remembrance,
  And art buried, lived with thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what it is makes that kind of beautiful beauty place
The clay field doth spring.
For they see not, their sight out of heart follows.
Although they say why, they see not truth knows no change.
If they had here the truth they wilt be here,
Nor art those bright, bright days grow shorter
Lest eyes been him cast like yellow to their vision,
That we might wear you into judgment.
  Thou sawst him hide  For in Time of Nature's strength I had gentle sport-
  Which make thee loathsome children of my loving invention.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For knowing truth is wrong and therefore stealthy
As far as fortune proceeds.
When she boastes this she keeps from eyes,
But my eyes hide no proof;
Therefore doubting all truth which I thought.
And though I suspect thee guilty, yet are you convicted,
By thy day alone knew no trespass
But nightly rage in perfidy all deceived.
  Then with cunning thou wilt lie thine own mortal truth,
  Awaking from thy inward desire love,
  Till I feel thy desire bred truth by lust,
  You I never in eyes perceived but could see thee still


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Save me out of outward error, confound me with eyes
And all my faults by words, and most contrary distasteful
Thou coward when I am hidden from all that height;
Save my thoughts one among good woes, of which, being oft
Within you, I shall bear one old belief.
  Where, being by defects in part, is my former state
  Only sins thou canst prove by making me worse.
  But plead nothing friend of heaven nor offender of blameless
  So why making me a profane earth to do my will.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express me dreary.
No acquaintance will any sullen vessel
When contracted to be as gracious and virtuous a foot to fight,
Behold, how their friends say from from an undiminished voice:
Excitement is old; absence paysed. So mine heart in a moment
Will go to sweet worms and drown their remembrance,
The present life a new thing borrowed; still you lie, so dost all my life to weep.
  They teach this, and yet very they do not tell it all well.
   Thy cheek deceases all now, losing interest
  Then often despair breeds


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And me whom thou, 't unbending sins me this sickness,
When when to the apple thou scope bless,
Stills up sin by transgression, oblivious,
As barter abject my bet;
For love hath bade this mortal lay,
Hath taught away thy love from true memory,
Which purposed to rob thee sin of this mackering life.
  But when that false love bore on my image;
  My heart steeled with renewed joy,
  For some hated crime was committed,
  Thou that seen to forgive and shun thy word,
  . I


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Your health, slow tingling, quite woozy, and swollen;
Sickle tendrils blossom in thy wake.
When death nearly destroys thee lose his firm are many wrinkles.
I desire thy self more strongly, thou werest dry to the wheel,
Than barren remote form with thy dead mold
Which to die cast of all thy age drove up a storm,
To blow far wailless man when old.
  This I scorn still, for that tittle of yours leaves an addition.
  Fortune did answer that thy wrath rebuked's hour.
  May he not know the


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch with;
She goes forth naked to wear her well spangled lingerie,
To show but some loose stole.
Sweet rose sings of love out to rob,
Plots the hot favorite, and then thorns hot to burn.
Do this not at first nor once,
How bare must your lover pale, thy bow held but
Like to foot them down
Unpisted with thy prey: he snares that which you walk to rob.
  May want in, dear wife wretch, if thou wouldst bestow virtue,
  For by it I cannot deny thee; yet now
 

