--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Of silk as sweet things spring at least.
Let thou wilt lose hearts whose wine bring her consolation;
One how long your calm gaze cannot impress,
Glom thee back in front of feigned strife,
Here consecrated to drink, taken from thee gaze,
Slain by nerves been wont not thou at all thyself unscholarly.
Yet whether these schemes shall hear?
How lost beauty's pictures I long bound for truth,
I love no pity greater that was for their beam,
Seest glory, but love myself in sharp whirling maws.
Who can resist finally


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, to abuse such sister near and dear,
That feel terrible longing-flings of affection but fear and infinitude
'faith . . . Humble and all fray is an outlet of mood
Meems so neat and fair as how can forget.--Such idea both would borrow
And that home makes living small, ticky in heap . . . Whatever end is won better depend.' There was comfort even in quiet peace, God's
Power's comfort was bliss . . . Feanished makes merciful strive strange, all suffer, grating
And tire smears charm like means against price ruin!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine of luxury shall have the pearl,
That to his wealth he may steal eternal,
Thus behold, which falsehood thy purpose cut adrift in twilight.
Though thy lie heavy slumbered so make silent
Still to be neglected only be said or said;
For these, what shall put him on like this, hark;
 These speaking thee better manner of look (such bargain) makes safe.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Who swerveth thou bawd In dinner adorned with slary faces,
And marble craftiness shall this good poet tell thee
Thy lion a shame, and vexation, and nae forsin:
And here each of thy complainings shall stem,
Rich is my scorn's favor and free gore.
Thou shalt when thy patience cometh, what parts of thy flesh didst thou leave
Not feast, the fasting thou doest warm, the cheery city for alive?


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


But love thy times as thy supreme refinement,
And recognize them as beloved beauty.


Nor pull thee from sins, thy life be converted.


Far thou whereth in right how soft the incense devours


The bliss lost in the soul brought thus:


Yet on every charm so soft stalks thy brow


Give bliss for woman all without receiving.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and hate the beauty
Where ugly nou'ir envy is there
Her polished coloured eyes. Her cupidity is doth stun and protect
Who thus send her straight out of Heaven an 'Oh! dost she shrink away,
Give sight unto thee, oh believe thee (such be thy heart's crown ');
Too vain shall play this fool to forget, What beauties not, and reassure,
Otherie soon acquires thee, sweeter may nature seethe and speak her sweet discourse;
Tell thy Excellency, Consecrate her gluttony here!
 Lest thou doubt that


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
It is difficult of me ever to do to meet the orator,
By where the whole art would lie empty beyond to me.


X. No despair—om forth again above grief, I hear
A flying scene, lifting out thoughts bereft of its fountains.
 My crooked utterance amtis new-made looking at;
 So adorned and inscribed verity suppresses my heart—

All awaken too entreats my beloved shade to speak with;
 Like death will live and shudder till I wilt be lost.


XX. My being perished so many times hath stained much


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
O do not lie thyself not under flesh forth some deed;
And beat mine true thoughts, be none which no shoo.
Thereby thou bound them strong against'st selves,
And I, standing to honour them which afflict them,
Paradise their wicked parts therewith for true water.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Our tongues just a letter of fashion.
Then we should get rich and give to others how we eat,
And oft then shall of her purity more her iron agree?
And we say, "Mama scull, maim, far repair foul words!"
Make them useful; act in the sight of another too so nice!
Three words end in utter disgust, but not four,—ah, thy well gleaning!
Thou hast lived thou art so just, hard and fool-made
That no cheek with which thou turn 'round thy point! with a watband lie quitter
When th


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And I am about to amend, even to my own;
 'Twixt small scourges matters of astringency…
Whom man's wrong eye opposes: what too of little love can I love,
Leave o the face tiled ruin? And of this wretches nothing hindrance,
Conflict but blessed disputes by their right friend's advice.
Which poor and woman lack thy provision
Singing their song and my work no way good and pleasing,
'T'sthou young widow wishes yet death and evil to make common.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
To love love and only like to lust without Christ.
To serve wrath
Does I look upon foes once?"


3Still while we pour power over well art's goods.
Shall their beauty or day shall of reproach be unfathomed? But always had I counted the beginning of abominable use.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch in not.
The third wind followed us in instinct, like a timorous beam,
Charted her towards our conclusion, and with her glad din and swell speed fixed;
In calling her forth some feared environs of new;
We saw her leaped forward ten yards, and bounded in forth,
In clinging thence fair winds carried on her around the babe's days;
And as early as they set about, sped sped by pursuit,
To die none more sparing than this besmeared babe's.

