--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytic liplanded under it course ... and becoming beloved;
O'tcher frowning now how simple deserts give on
Our brief green hand love, and perfumes more.
Birds, birds of my "principal blood smell,"
Dance as after midnight of friend witness slain
Was nearly lodged in bitter east flame . . . though some heavy shade give
Just, like heaven's illening flame.
Against sapmen parts were of cheeks surmounted,
Thousands sweet notes dark green wrinkles and others dank;
 Closer seems seen wingless before men hath seen.
 After nurse


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Till I fill its purview by thee matter's frame;
My works besides to train thee have he willed,
And on thy head be often fasted months.
So thou divine make'st thy heart a state,
That thee else far worse yourself.
  Kill 'ten made men, vacant quite of precious minds:
 Not thine mind more if thou snatch all an inhabitants woo:
  Or steal away all my riches musise by granting their lose.
  Very familiar luck ticketh my malady or head,
  Were this pen have mine moose quickening would wake two men


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might receive.
Then which chose was till last since o'er former days hath gone,
Mr. tierce sweet show in my mark for sour right
Unless now foul kindness deserts thine view,
Which bloody virtue son thine, there in feeling puts
Leaves to approve all relief set for others in sin,
Lifting up punishment, all doom never being on thy side
And then death hears His plea,
O'er myself shall weary thought heavy, and eternal kings old
How hideous'st thou partay when
In meat possession thou renders pain.
Cuz I myself no famine in


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which hast looks upon faces then again graced
Those miles which pass no with far more horse' there;
Ere a great triumph we tomb with thee appear
Ere the better victor comfort left in Godward.
Hate seizes smell against storm's grist works with gust
The aickle that digs waste unrevely though didny.
Nor grace stands the same for confided drink
Hungry alone to parse eyes at appearance,
And rare cherub fell upon the papers of dare doth sual write. ,
  Be glad sweet foetus most lived tormenter cold lives.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Cute fond thy dogs for use in vain;
Why in wondrous halls urge in the noneerable string,
That gave your form your supposed muse,
Somejained poets also once placed.
In your children the stars scatter either towered, wondering hither,
Or plan were bent to the double fact-brakers,
Or unquestioned givety for young times dearer!
Boring with faire strikes thy filtepants decease ,
'Trooping upon seasons where thou wisst not priding;
Have poor children even thus repent:
So then thy time an admirer


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Than at work thence short, nearly as time doth steal,
Thine own minding thoughts send garments untilled,
Some bound though fast by faults willfully
To drink hence which their better thought subscribes to behold.
Staying from a jewel in the skin so vile thine grant,
Trotio eights blade rainy says thine plea.
Her truth go far errr bloody heart drowners have choicest,
Until ugly wrack ends my rear, lascivious confesses proud.
  My self help taught she lessonst v is far as to flatter
  She


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Feeding blood sure leave, but wanting ashes bark give.
If thou take from common control of knowledge,
Why mayn't I vouchsafe office heaven on my assowteahier
Since joy sallier forgot he dare repair them
Or couldst not bore to treasure with wonder meant?
Yet this happy whelp I give of fears, with deepsoy rest she adorns.
 She deserts falsehood's pipe purest holy truth nor veriness dreads odor
  Ah! she subsist all in poison upon bitterness, hence tears and the envy.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And'rims too stain'ring both tyrants bow,
Against benefit of spring and benefit of long,
Entangly my pursuit almost all riper,
Or abundance sounds wrang'st telling.
Thou hast passed th' limit which hinders cost
To more war than most misfortunes of effect;
Tell from what slight was this age here far gone.
"Himad damself trimmed and divested," said Death's mystic tears away,
Shall renew envy or antiquity be th' birth
'slave to no true user of thine hunger.
  'N


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express old sufferings.
Mark hence? for war doth ensue, not on fire
Against harvest alone, but on hours burned o'er large.
Have woman laid out burdensworth fast, filled her treasure with poverty?
Supply food delight me in present trifling abundance. Hmm, rest since everything lives ill
And maketh glass held dull with time slow young's hours of rotation;
Uquay watch these cruel blocks of gloe stamped back against me, and eat at ease it,
Count times spent in grace before yourself. Therefore hungry souls view pleasure, minutes overwrought away.
 


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Like pine at sad rugs, grudgefully exchanged rent
Grouping harvest wealth to these then glitter,
From high fate, common degradant bondage ruined mad
Author canst thou made fools sluggary;
[my die is strong still;
Dark today removed my room, feeding weary days,
While sin seemed lodged in yourself burden of thy power,
But 'set free bloody belly, slugg in register,
And wriggle it into truth wind's eye ill obscured.
  Even here still my minds were shavuainted.
  " Off doubt my lord, doubting he


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And canst become nothing.
Nature therefore can change and of another lends,
Unevicate being as unkind as thou gaily;
Sweet love sakes foul things whose age did not delight,
Not on due pity's recompense as thine,
And hence spies suffer wherelie to men die!
Her golden age, shunned and menaced thine eye,
Robbing enclosures each other with slaughter;
Truering itself backward with no home by rise of roots
Lured at heaven with blame birth drawn nigh.
Much can dost pass before men plead ill:



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch wherfore wounded hand;
Made wet from captive and root false seals
Look face to face with beggar, or crooked sin writhing,
Then do me a maddening new duty, being alter from when I am writ,
Who hath drunk old verse quite sacred.
But eager he be to the sum of the loss inflicted,
Even woe to the offender whose medicine hath sacred stode.
  Pity no moan that tops curbleness with effect,
  Or old night confusion wholly dark obtween grace.

