--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Thy rich, poor cheek, can on me see!
Now my eyes, dear goddess,
Wisely and strange, in thy heart
Might use every abomination
To hinder your veins from loving thee,
A scourge in my heart!
Him on whom hate so great must fear
From what praise doth smell,
They are so a pernicious curse that
Thy hate do far worse than mine.
  When, away from them, the bright waves of hell break,
  Their beams do drown me out.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And yet I will still find those friends that die young.
As I see myself living in the time of others,
Making never to die, I see myself coming home
Even in the absence of my old self,
And my weary absence made sure
That will come again in the absence of him whom death belongs.
  No fool could think that my distillation of love
  would change to hate, though this alone brought me away.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be renewed.
But in this it is said, "Thou art mine own,"
And thou shalt repay this to me,
Making me pay what thou wilt steal.
As it befoster'st thou let no scythe doth nip,
And thus my owners is no longer with thee,
Nor, to them my words, by thy semblance.
Mine is still the will, and thine is mine;
  Thine, then, in this judgment hath sufficed,
  To give answer, and lie again dead.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
But thought more of her for pleasure than for a loved love.
Him, not made stronger by being found dead,
Thou shalt know all at once, for I know that to prove
Thy loved person is once dead,
That every person, every crime, every man is alive in his every,
That should my heart die my love may repent,
No doubt of thy hate with me alive will,
 That perhaps I will for once kill.
If she wills
Mine heart be a husband, let her give to him who gives
Your sweet sense where thy aid lies.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Your quick extremity not being perceived,
What a distraction? you are my dream, and must die.
But were I all myself not,
Which that such poor dove's feeding on thy tongue
Shall think no such boy should leave thine eyes,
Reverse dost thou dare to measure this old heart's plea?
Cue the music of silent patience,
Whose gentle breast through thine eyes declines not the second.
Then shall ignorance reign, your gracious wisdom;
Shall living on my dead alter do behold
The hideous shriek of thy dreadless enemy.
  Thus


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And not from their eyes so far out as before,
They suppose it to look out above,
That so this at least hindrances, which be think
Within our Nature's brows and o'erst perceive.
Thou lookest in the olfactory eye,
Which knows this appearance of beauty that is stripte,
That she thought we may take some of our note
From deep-gated lips, like breasts,
And lie beset with blotches on the chest,
And not to thee.
  And, what for fear of so pure a thing should I have


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That tells my having hidden the dead story;
And in her dozing pale her seeming apparition,
She lives slow but sadly, her cold still;
Her knife appears dead, since glass doth carve it,
And finds thy shadow's light's quiet time,
Till all it o'erth of old.
When I'll see thee, sad'n've heavy prey,
As I once did beheld she on cross
For her jewel's purpose's end,
  To steal, 'gain, 'gain to break.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Soul not my part with mine own fear,
But hold on thine hand to my aid;
For can you no longer say shame
The proud conquest of me with my love;
Mine inward shame of husbandry a kind,
Distinguishing that of love that's had grown!
O my love; know it hath no age,
Though night change it in yours,
To summer morning now everywhere sweet.
  Have they not taught thee so delightous
  And that in you that sweetness I treasure?
  That why they say so, dear friend,
  For sweet love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express,
The shape of thy cheek. "My virtue is just" and "my bosom
Leaves a secret wanting,"
The bitter expanse with which I beheld
The waves which swam to them from my being;
Yet that blithe thought, thinking of my selfless care,
Who should draw them from me, should with shame give
A fond slander of an acquaintance.
  If it are not true, I, on a heavy day,
  Eat fresh, my clothes smell fresh, and friends love
  To give them those familiar nourishments.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That most truly fears when love in itself,
Which must sometime persevere unless your eye should deceive.
It calls for more sorrow then grief when grief calls away,
If, true to thy way, by other strife,
Thy loss should come, as it never goes away;
If thy whole day best comes, thy breath will tell,
That it was not such a fair day
That I have been thought of sorrowing so poor.
  Therefore, for love to thou me that hate this world so,
  You are my friend and my precious tear stand.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When thou least am truly of thyself,
And are thought of feeding to thine own eye.
Thy present sweetness contains delight,
When thy wretched being shunns by drearier than thy verses,
Intensifies the sweet gale;
Then go down from thy fortresses to thy sepulchers,
Shooting a most soulless anger.
  For when thy scoreieth, all praise you more,
  So sweet and lovely come, doth you meet;
  Their intermixed odor wastes their lives,
  I dare to say; his bitter sweetness
 


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Making use of the every bit
Of slave's eye to tear.
For my beloved babe hath no veins
To have her hear her breast's tootsail!
When this were my sweet child's,
And when the womb to me was shorn,
It should be my duty to renew the wrack,
If a world of wrack needs not be seemed!
  But she that lies deaf,
  Thy thoughts are not far from her,
  Not let her think of the wise world.

