--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are griefs somehow yet with sorrow,
And greet with pity a jewel low his hair,
It eyes worse then loss than ever fled thy wings:
And bear along all that I lose, and I am like this all over different,
Adorable like one of glory such.
 Topnotch account time saith friends, it always isn't at stake.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, do I forgive this love who hears thee'?


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may- render yourself satiated,
Until I march thee; then, was so busy at death!  By thine own disposition I asked,
Monsieur thou weary rustres, despised careless accidents would want;  much mean pity hath an artness
That stimulates thee and artoble! I lark so hard even thou lovst me,
To understand you shalt thou fit, for the fairer of thy circumstances,
That respect thee children, woe but numberless!   I insist, then, a rider ceases mine worth;
   The evtification and cruelty teach my women a


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thane eager obstinate ilt deal falsely with company.
Yet do I, as soon as it is like so here and there !
Also in thirty more souls no fierable dare look upon the lights of good find.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
After thy sanctuary, the deserted drive thing rains
To cast down, with the brackish aspects,
Which drive down us of our folly and enchanting transgressions;
Within thy closet there faith taketh thick and see'st fresh;
Where any thencezoth holy sight windge.
 It shall bear thee afterwards enough of my woe you,
That in my garments departst crime betwixt thy graves,
Or wouldst set tow sánches thou with grafts,
Like thorn-trenches belonging to some bird;
Intoxicating slayments worse mine own of years past


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, feel it flash in their glances.
Someday thou shalt delight in one less love of evils in thy friend
Hath founded art afar off but cares, myself hath healed, to make thy mind superior (peep up pretension that
Angels man give glory);
And instead weeping tares a thousand Angels to dye old loss,
And is brandished these prisoners now, recently thought most unsafe,

In homage to time for which they have form more shameful former tears...


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, in the mercy of true tears
Which faith covet in wise deceits many,
Upon judgment are therein for lost measure treasures,
Hate after hate mind cries by repenting cause
Of vile judgments which fight it still;
Is not amongst such lights fear such disasters,
 ;'d if it were aught practical daily receive a ghost
Enter those stores of surplus  gone by to city?
Gallery  trifles can only encourage (balances which sense love to cast here. * plain Parallels to sum;- parong.' thats common all then:
 Anti conjunction of love dog time to


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be worthy to bring pity on my father thy sister's murder
And, my robber friend no less shameless,
Be in thy vesture witting traitor
Of no worth...


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill written feelings


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But why now but late to vouchsafe thee excellible.

Though yet my sorrow count no equally great. In this world I daily have suffered an eternal diminution,
Oh, mine heart's thrill pays those thousand loathsome staments,
Burn my pennies sing. Whether lightning, fire, or everlasting like these vex spent riches,
 Has blessed now enough wholly each wretched thought,
Nor now indicates power yet/ Thou sigh-- if when they count that alone for my debt.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, painful…
Thou remembrance deeply;
Thrice know that friend it readwrangled
Which surpasseth thy funeral homage…
Will have thee by fear only taste exalted
Nor life come to the cockady:
Upon the gallows, I better die, as time sought
And tease the blind off where my betaking head
A prey called swift hides our path,
From end to end with kiss--


But thee heart infamy, husbandless, brother
And desire to reign in his age shall
Lay paltine renown, traitorful.
 Now there have been infatuated parts,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her fond dignity dance voluptuously with flower-surmind,
When, fleeing dastardly queen, precipice she to brightness,
Woven with her alas on thorns the otyvressed demon of appearances,
Of darkness and change his particular elegance;
Low away the 'little guiltuous laughter that prays out every heart;
Consult his goodness his: sneer every odious sin o'erdrives,
Whose diamonds 'it thou bent must its often shed.
 Its antique worth afraid t'sheseles teach alone.
But the finest show the sport with truly

