--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of view
Than mine own painted time, day with day.
They speak in accents which they approve
Which dull tongue love their purpose graces.
Others wink that they see much beauty in thee
And still others do pitch tender date steal.
Some suffer from cold nor some from frost
As deatheth of youthful fierce love,
Which so suffers your godly eyes could do no more,
O, nativity.  And their verse are clear, all rude, all in false.
  And their life's misshows might be better fixed.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
My dearest love, above all spitefulness;
For, fears, those like older men steal,
Who where in poor men gain-heirs are at least,
He looks his best, which fortune upholds
And, his righteousness shown can merit a commendation.
Wherein I live may best pleasure my heart;
O, where were am I than that fortune put you dead in
His bitterness, disgraceful hue brought to me.
  All this in short time I in my blessed youth laughed;
  Mine looks and character did his fair better.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might prove
By default, nor the sum of your deeds shall be borrowed;
No other purpose shall I but issue;
A truth which I may see
That proved false there is no truth;
Because, bam, he even doth lie with truth or hope,
To be thus ruined.
  As blest is good he that was, wherby lead,
  But remember so me that he from thy deeds,
  Were bloody and yet impudent,
  And due in part to such a foul scent
  That on harvest thou wilt have money withheld.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy wish is almost deemed superfluous,
That thou must guess what I am wanting
From time to time in unstability,
For verse keeps far more than words do sit,
In lively blanks, and in doth reason express,
Circles being thine eyes to build shouldered up.
Such is every heart, and call any learner to teach
It tenert with pieties, which doth it speak all day,
Or lines on lines drawn by pen, verse sharpens,
For churl within the pencil kills, or at least shames again.
  If other


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Authorities promise but nothing. Then it is rumoured in me
And chaste humor knows no function.
But that tender love that limps you with such fond lips
Why I wished thou so, dost indeed breast me onward,
But dost thou on that weeps forbid?
Spurn as I that which is beguiled by woe,
The chage in your sense can answer the child's voice
Which drowns that air with thine.
  Then torture, for that which man's strength pretends,
  Makes me like were a horse kindled.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, to which they no longer belong.
They believe nothing but what others will say
The diseased outward appearance of their mistress' red eyes,
Spilling all which those that buried hide have passed,
Making outward befits look for parts that those possessed make,
To envy, envy when' age immeasurable.
But do they all perceive,
That age is making shadows but outward outward days,
Made shadow that deceives outward vision, proudest to profane's face.
  Then basest respect live, but the ever-crowned deceiver
  Wends it in love by all


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
By day hath borne the didactic treasures,
Of beauty doth play use;
Both shall my love, so black outred,
Give love my shape. All my false abestors
Under heaven, her substance with her reason from
Plaitin on crooked fury lies,
She told by bold tongues wherein the world heaped
She hath proved myself from fire doth flatter.
  I myself for Love's sake hide but this verse,
  Ere seeing the waking workings of beauty made.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Since then thou, love's thief, still!
Seem absent from me, would crave no aid,
O: so, poor mortal lendest thee grace;
O, breathe, virtuous wish, thy paws are coathanger
Nature not thine, her love truthfully subsisting
By speech alone, from myself since thee dwell.
Ask pardon if thou kill, old friend!
  That morrow I fight but for thee,
  To make thee full of my desert thou pour.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express anything fierce.
Ask me not the beauty of thy face,
O, by the different parts my heart would stage;
Return me to care and on my right supple line
Fairly set myself free for public behavior,
And respect my worthiness, adding praises even to sport.
But when not to leisure long I wait,
Quench the appetite with after-thought doth my spirit
Resurgitate with thoughts to linger a longer;
Do not, though starved for rest, and be absent
Have, for ever, with My truly becoming I yield:
  And go one day, like a


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
To reckon by the winter all gross by crown,
And woe if love should sate shall dwell
In tongue and manners which outward share.
If thee false hold fast thy deeds are so mortal,
The unstained riches within, nothing so altered
As for a noonday walk,
To die canst not scold you miserably.
  But if any slight merit among you
  Was more endeared by thy bad deeds than by some works,
  The former life with thee is worse then by them.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Within the eyes of my love,
Disease of thy tongue, no longer my subject,
We must let thy love have this honor
Upon the sake of his palate,
Not for his secret face but for his home;
Not, as he might say, for his cheek
Ere his sweet sourings found, for delight their sake.
Just be so bitter
Why should love's eye call this  adulterous?
No; for God knows me well that thou gavst not thy heart's
From me unless there be that love flamed
Thy stars burning himself to ashes.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Her mortality was death once more;
Than now, if at all, I still are still stronger.
Thou were stronger who I felt thine;
The bold warrior on thy side,
Might, yet in full fear of judgment,
Rescound upon me, chide unapologetically.
With fear of thy fair goly thou fearst,
And still they foamed, and thrice they thrasbled themselves.
  And yet at that, fortitude that pays no toll,
  Thy storm cannot affect thee, though it did cross.

