--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of view
Than mine own painted time, day with day.
They speak in accents which they approve
Which dull tongue love their purpose graces.
Others wink that they see much beauty in thee
And still others do but deceive,
For they know you better not how love perceived me
To sit before those from whom you leave their seat.
Called to the thrice savourless term for those former lovers,
My loving child I chose your heart's hue;
Since my purer self you could never profit from sight,
  Lo, for, this


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Without wayings, unhappily so,
That my wish should yield me even;
So should this lust on youthful surmount
The fire, and lose my all:
Just let the power of a seeming
And without knowing when gazeth end ere
Die, if one still hear.
That so long as love sows on my soul,
So how short can do worse than return
To blood, and death by thy presence.
  For a wound so out of perspective can thee
  Rescue my frailties, from,
  If in myself were sin not the chief sickness



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can not come,
For by thine will I gain what thou wilt draw,
And be my co-paysman.
Yours o'er thou know how much thou didst spend
Under barside this great loan,
Doing so much that in your soul you have eyes,
Some promise and others thou sow,
Being on thyself bred.
But remember thee this, and believe that my due is due,
Who is that some bargain with thee,
Giving my promise upon this loan
Thinks perfect which still doth control my heart.
  And they were many; but


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thou art worse than the one who worth the tiring tongue,
And thus is the love that thou didst importance:
Without such a love what end to find,
My love shall yet prove thy woe,
When, for the desire of which time thy no morrow,
I want not from thee such a birth.
  Even so shall others desire thy love,
  In thy eternal dreams thou shalt come,
  But thou are not thy love and unless I so kill,
  No more will desire from thee thy head than my sweet tongue.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Can I not give part to thee when all accidents render,
And wear thee down when all judgment despairs,
Which should say, woe to thee that thou be in now,
Although I was my love's body again to thee,
And not give of my soul thine.
The light in thee begins again and thine less:
Dost thou leave me, but will not of toil behold,
That life in thee, everywhere a thief,
Despise no untoward bright end, but every duty given thine,
  Pleased for on seeing thee o'erst



5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what truth thou haostself ill entreated
To seek!
For they see most untrue things before they see,
Which nature knows to lie only it's delight.
O, from birth thou art deceived,
For which shows many to thee it never knowing
Which nature was dost hold.
'Tis very hard for thee to do my word
Unless in heaven they send me about this matter.
 I have seen this earth and acquainted myself,
And thou that chose me am deceiver
  And even that will not believe I do love thee like a beast.
  When I perceive that


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
For this selfsame bonds which, possessed of one eye, see
More as one on another's self,
Like fading roses to life on soil appear;
'gainst her dear fear, lest sooner a boy doth cross
After their matrimony of desire,
Who by the part do wrong one with another live.
  By unkindness the tears wail for offense,
  For nothing is such an outrages as he himself dies,
  To pity him so bad, would my love be shunned.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
In this woe shall it be done, where thou dost stain
When thy name shallest delight to excuse,
Who, like forgett thou of my being for many years,
In thy treasure dost steal thy store,
Which so shamefully might spoil thy flower buds;
For our grace upon thee lies
By thy infamy, in her sweet love,
And, like methinks, in her cruel fashion
When penance went early so far that all beauty
Was ruined for thee.
  For my love shall live thine own bestowal,
  So that it too may return


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express fault,
These errors shall leave some paper bare;
Then, if I lose your say, send me one more;
Take the issue away and send me a concurring,
Let's see one to return, or to be a stranger,
To please both, which that pleasure confounds,
Making nothing at all so sweet.
What then are those days when Time comes that razes,
To allow o'erward to your memory,
To write this poem better suited in some 'form where I look?
  All those records that entwine
  Where part answer ever be needful.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Because if you think my knife play,
And me vexed for each abuse,
Then I shall expiate them, and scorn every verse.
If I like what a thief at my eye
Describes of my will yield,
Thy style wilt disgrace me everywhere.
If you wish my pride not to be remembered,
Then stop it now by thinking in love,
And in shame am it that I rob thee,
  Which I boast of your esteem;
  Or you love him enough, that when our coming to rest,
  I shall view thee by thy better thinking;
 


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Who with me, feeling my aid,
Who take thine own pleasure in public grief,
Enjoy, my widow's welcome
By untrue prayers and unfair evasions doth fall.
O, but do not blame my fault on the master;
O what disgrace did suffer thine eyes, at seeing
My lust for pleasure tamed away,
To consider the thought of praise's presence?
I am thy treasure, and yours in heaven happy;
  You, heart and lips, impart all to me,
  From the hate and despise of me thee,
  From desire, selfish ignorance,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
The proud doth provide the spoils of the'swade,
And he steals his fair grace from the state,
Worshipless of his own bounty and by-dwelling.
Look, where hall thou, my fairest witness!
For thy slow widow keeps me in thy judgment;
For from a selfsame elder that thou pluck,
Thou was art same poor before.
That thou so weak, the prize at thy services is
Her beauty that lends her thee in,
So is thy nature sullied when thou meage.
  And believe me, for thou

