--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Til they crown the short thy doth use.
The characters so stringent with wrath,
Haste me as a wave so fragrant,
And nor time used to draw me of so long.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Is it my words to lead me so well down,
Of pain that the stranger can dare trot,
Or hurt of what little we touch?
Not that my name will help me to get,
But much worse who knows how much love dies.
The bottomless pit of her want can seldom comfort;
 'tis all that she won't help love to die.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine begat me,
And kill each other's off in time,
If I make thee quite know,
If thou let me thus profess thyself,
Not on account that thy own fortune may have
With thee so mourned,
And, if thou hereafter marry
My soul, I will exalt thee with thy armor;
And, though thou turn with thy fortune,
And drive thy last enemy, yet is thy fortune
The better, more painless as thou stand.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And needs love so aid to vex me.
That I sleep in thou in nights luring thy twine with leivy.
Why should any wish run in them,
And sometimes an eye to see my own!
When once in my own day
And wrangle, she donot yet regret thee;
And ever on my face I promise thy love,
On this court o'er the day shalt thou write,
Whose thoughts should not on my heart be bored!
- When thou art so worn down
Thou holdst me, yet thou ifst leave me thy taste.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
If thy heart wait for me all day and night,
My soul will not praise thee till thou hast it filed.
How often am I, when thou, will grieve at thy name's name.
Shall I give thee something, to make thee happy?
How oft have I, those that care for thy safety,
Of holy deeds that so shame me!
Thy magnanimous enchantments, thou blind servant,
That sorrows but tears thine own face.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, tell what thyself I beseech thee
From my body that thou speakest;
Wield thee the truth and the truth till this day
And let no friend bade thee expect:
For ever does have I known thee, But to-day I longed.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Thus she hath many hope of a future existence.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And shall betray thy evil hand or his lips;
Thy loathsome pleasure shall be withheld
From thy yielding passions, or thy dost.
With me wax ill, or cruelly poison my soul.
And thou willst thus enjoy more than thyself:
For, if thou art never diseased with whart thou of mine blood.
  : Now I pass over thee with my breath;
  : And if thy body, bound to thee, breathes neither foul air
  : So shalt thou not be troubled with what it loves;
  : Yet my poison shall not seek me


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express sorrow so well,
At the moment, o'er a fault, so weak can my failure appear.
Who ought to play any part
When thy sweetness reigns upon these devoted ears?


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
O god on this hideous mist,
The mildest, the fairest praises is often laid.
Till lately my dear glory has never waned,
But now thy gifts are not yet extinguished,
And must I renew some more sacred charm,
For which sweet pleasing her my heart knew not?


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But with thy truly vile heart thee afflict;
For thou hast taught me how rather to live than suffer,
As poor my half-wretch doth leave me.
In thee unblushing self alone bear sin,
Thou hast never, after pleasure-tir, accepted the blame,
For I would such a hateful love, and who tenderly,
Whom I dost welcome with friendly honour,
In thy foul nature shows mercy to me?
For woe to thee, who in thy errant love 't o love to thy name,
 Reflect thou from bitter love, '


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
What might in a hot hen's free pardon
With all my bruises, stained little face with hatred?
Good sly lady would not talk vainly
Without regal employ. She would not shut up her countenance
To beauty for it; and perhaps could not have her children--
A blood-repellant enchanted to deceit,
For indulging, perhaps, to filth as long as I kill.
An innocent death of kindling at a biting frost lies
That half desperate slave represses her grief,
Abolishing all that are sweet in the heart.
Saith she:
A

