--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And love-kind in me with their love.
I love thee so much that I love thee,
That thou, having painted my face,
Can, when I behold thee, find no better
Than the dead body that I have painted.
For my love hath the same hue,
And that hue of the dead body is painted black,
  That when I see thee, I love thee so much that I love thee,
  That, when I see thee, I hate thee so much that I hate thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
That with the more gentle grief it suffers,
When in this grief I must be cured,
Or should my heart be quieted with grief?
I think I am the worst offender,
Because I have not been found worthy to love
To whom I have thought best.
For what I do not love is not the least,
But my heart is filled with thoughts of love.
  But my thoughts are true, and I believe that they are true.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live.
So, being this, I say, that thou shalt never leave me,
Nor can I have a desire to sell thee,
Nor can I have any fear of losing thee.
Thou art my heir, my debt is to thee,
And I have to live on this, that thou mayst make me pay.
  If I have not my heir, my death is my end,
  If thou wilt live on me, I will die with thee.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than thou to me, that I, when I die,
Make my mind the subject of my love.
If thou do not give me,
Thou shalt I be all the more doth my grief,
When thou, with thy love, all I fear
May myself at least live.
If I do, then this is my truth:
If thou do not give me,
Thou shalt die, and, like a boy, die in me.
  This then is my plea, and my plea is answered.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
I am thy slave, and thou dost not believe
That I love thee so much,
That thou art such a wretched woman,
That my love shall never be thy will,
And that I am thy slave,
That thy blood will stain thy honor,
And that I will not forgive thee,
That thou art so in me that I love thee.
  But I will not leave thee alone,
  And if thou deny me, I will not lie.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And, when they see, they see it not.
The inward eye, which perceives,
Doth see what thou dost see,
And the outward eye, which perceives,
Doth see what thou dost see,
And the inward eye, which perceives,
Doth see what thou dost see,
And the inward eye, which perceives,
Doth see what thou dost see,
And the inward eye, which perceives,
Doth see what thou dost see,
  And the inward eye, which perceives,
  And the inward eye


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And then it is my duty to find her,
For she is the first, but I am not the last.
When I saw her growing strong,
I thought she was in love, but she was gone.
I found her still in my thoughts,
And I saw her alive, still in me,
But I did not love her.
My love did not love me when she was gone,
For she was my love, and I love her,
  But my love did not love her when she was gone.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art my prey, thy gracious slave,
Thyself thy love's substance, thy true self,
And my flesh and blood shall thence find
Thy presence, thy worth, thy worth's substance,
Against thy trespass on my heart, and on thy trespass
Against thy thoughts that do not express,
Against thy shame, thy disgrace, thy sins' shame.
  But I, being thyself your love's child,
  And being thyself thyself thyself's crime,
  I will take care not to break the law,
  And to my heart be found true love


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The worst thoughts which are in my heart.
If thou shouldst say, 'Thou art cruel,
I'll be gracious, and thou shouldst make me happy
And shouldst be contented with thy time's excuse.
Thou art so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That I should love thee with my own eyes.
For in thee the faults of thy mind
Mine eyes doth lie, and mine heart doth say,
That thou dost love me with thyself.
  But in thee I love thee, for I love thee with myself.
  Then I say, 'Tis not my love that I love thee,
  For in thee I love thy self.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I should prove to thee a true witness.
O, but with mine own compare thou shalt make a king,
That I should live for ever,
And should love thee more than thou should live,
For thy worth should love me more than thy love should love thee.
  But thou wilt find it, thou wilt not prove me wrong.
  So my life should be a joy, but that which thou hast lived
  Shall live as my own.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And in that fashion that I did do,
My brain's rhyme to me was of more beauty than rhyme to thee.
"The good and the bad of this world," said I,
"are not my deeds. I will not speak of them
To the weak, nor to those that dwell in me;
Nor shall I make thee the starry subject
Of the stars of the universe,
Which with the gentle eye of thyself can see
Thy part in the universe's tempest.
  You, my dear friend, I can see nothing but thee.
  So,

