--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Him being more the posterity of the dead,
Nor, let there be, to hold me dead.
They hold thee by their mouths, and thou, them they bring
For their proof, being their thine.
They leave me, and their own possession
O'er the straight-clack for their dearest shame
Comes; and they wait not my breath, but their eyes,
And see me dead.
They deem that my sight, the dull, dulled hue,
Shall be due to the world;
But I see them, in their white eyes.
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To spite or to give pity?
But if, on the other hand, I know what's most,
Some how cruel to myself and what to my friend's care,
Then shall I think what 'gainst this world by forsaking myself
Why can I not be so proud of this friend's love
But of myself alone, from whom I might be hurt,
Bending to grief and sick to myself?
  That may be true, as I am,
  When 'gainst nothing but hatred and ill fortune,
  Because I 'gainst this world's edge.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine in me shall live
Without a loss.
Therefore, I do your honour's will,
And though I might be slain, yet,
Thy injury shall not be not yet the loss
Nor would I in myself think myself heir to the earth,
Nor do I wish to have thy respect;
Nor do I neglect thy leave.
O, then, I make all so from me
That what my iniquities shall have,
My iniquities shall lose thee,
And I shall by this love belong not to you but to thee.
  Then I say, thou shalt love me, and


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And my love, if I stay, will see
Thou that do no wrong with me,
For I love you no less than by love's cruel hand.
To stay thy love I hold the duty;
I shall, with thee, and thy love's knife,
Mend thy life warily, with thy willful muse.
  But love's knife in thee's frame makes thee ill,
  In all your deeds thou dost tend my love.
  This, though you may be my lover, thou alone
  To break thy birth from me will live on,
  The knife in


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In the sight of that I look,
Thy eyes, being diurnal, will not thine,
An eye much like thy own, but thy view,
Which they see are thyself, yet blind in thee.
Then, how often it doth I behold thy eye,
And weep at that I were thy eye,
  My friend, to think of thee, knowing of thy will.
  So, to thee I have given thee self, but thou wilt seem.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and all am I but thee,
Who calls, calls, calls, calls.
For thy beauty is such, and there are such there that see
Within thy veins, and all thy filth is thine,
That in thy sight, all mine art but thee.
  There, do I see thee, and all thy hand doth hold
  That thou art nothing, although I alone know thee.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And think me a commoner's prize than a beggar's husband.
Yet when I find some boy's trifling book
With a loss of all beauty that I feel,
Or some other defect of age,
Than she lives up to any dream that she ever had,
That all his blood you may be mine,
Then, for she is almost her own sweetest goddess,
As my love did of my father, like the impregnable flame.
  But after she grew sick I to such a state
  As to have her in my memory dead,
  As to myself waste


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And with thy supplications,
Since thou art but my lover's invention,
Thou'st not the first, but a constant gift
Which amends every mortal sin.
Nor, methinks it, do I rob thee,
Though thou wilt stay my love's heart,
For all that thou hast with thee, nor shall I depart
From my bosom when thou vauntst me as thy lover;
  You'll be my friend and witness, not die.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Such a profound tenor as thou have not yet seen.
Thou art, therefore, not a poet,
But a man, much more so in poetical form.
Thou, of all poets, hast a certain unselfish
And the best thou dost force play
To persuade his verse to thee, and my own vulgar verse to thee.
Dost thou imitate my verse,
Of all poets, with many curious new
To prove the beauty of thy pen.
  Thus thou dost write my verse,
  And my verse, then, shall live and die.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And though my soul should dwell therein see
Much the truth, yet what I think love's strange.
Nothing is worse in me than thought,
Thy love doth influence my heart than thou,
A dear stranger's best friend;
So then 'tis with thee that I adore thy thought.
  But that thee is even as that whose beauty,
  Since thou art my first breath, made this my copy.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy own love, my love's most impure,
Hath hated to thee by thy outward self,
And thy esteem wherein thyself contains;
O, if thou hadst to despise thy self,
The world would, I assure thee, shake it to a place;
But, to thy false, I assure thee, I have no power
To quench it.
No, love is but the addition of one other,
And for that, it must be removed.
  Mine, too, am I but an ornament.
  I have nothing but love and nothing in thee,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
One hand plucks from the babe's hand,
Cuts out the womb, and calls the babe
The second, to the former.
The babe doth call upon the wombs of her new-born
As if he had doth it from his mother's womb;
And there, to his great delight, did arise
The womb of his former mistress, and his shame grow,
And from it all the world in love and in grief,
To leave his love behind him like the water that loves him back.
  And his bitterness subsides, and he withers away.

