--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And to their gracious welcome, they have gone.
But I love thee so much, that in me,
They might not have thought I was a poor boy,
But I love thee so much, that in me,
They might not have thought I was a poor boy.
  But then, my love, that they might not have thought I was,
  Their thoughts might not have thought I was rich,
  For I love thee so much, that in me,
  Their thoughts might not have thought I was poor.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To send a thief to steal me,
But I must seek my friend's ransom,
And I must seek him in the heart
Of his beloved heart, in which he was once buried.
For, being dead, I must be in his heart,
And, being dead, I must be in his heart,
And this is the true love of my friend.
  But if he is dead, I must be with him,
  And, being dead, I must be in his heart.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
And my part of thy bounty.
But now, I say, I am your friend,
And you have no right to deny me,
That I am your friend's heir,
And that I am yours for my part.
Thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not steal,
For I am thy friend's heir,
And I am yours for mine part.
  If I do steal, thou shalt not steal,
  For I am thy friend's heir,
  And I am yours for mine part.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For this I love thee so dearly,
That I must see thee in love,
And hope that thou mayst in my love be,
That I may show thee thy love's worth,
And show thy worth to my love's edge.
  As for thy love's worth, I love thee so,
  That I may show thee thy love's worth
  And show thee thy love's worth to my love's edge.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art, then, my true self, my true self,
The true self of thyself, and all thy part,
And thou, true self, the true self of all thy parts,
And all thy part, thy true self, is my true self.
  Then, as I am, thou shalt not be,
  But thou, true self, I will be,
  And thou, true self, I will be my true self.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And yet they are not deceived.
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not,
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not,
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not.
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not,
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not.
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not.
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not,
They know not what beauty is, what beauty is not.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which to me would seem to be a woman of my age,
Or some doting mistress of my heart.
But I cannot think of her in my heart
For I am not in love with her,
For I believe her to be my own,
And I am not in love with her for she is
And therefore I have no love with her,
Nor can I think of her in my heart
Nor can I think of her in my heart
  If I were in love with her,
  I would not love her but for myself
  If I were in love with her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Be not so kind as to blame thee for my absence;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend;
Be not so kind as to say I am not your friend.
  Therefore I, being your friend, shall be your friend's friend.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy own anger, or thy own rage, or thy own disgrace.
For thou art my dear friend, my love, and the first friend
Of all men, and, as thou art, I am thy friend.
Thou art my love's slave, my love's slave
When thou wilt do my will, and I am thy slave.
  For my love's sake, I have no love, no love.
  If thou dost love me, I will not love thee.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is the heart that looks upon thee,
That in thee the world's fair
May be made proud of thee, and that my love shall live
In my love's image.
  But to thee I have been so long and so fair
  As thou dost not love me with my eyes.
  To thee I have been so long and so fair
  As thou dost not love me with my eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That which thou mayst not see in me,
That I, not being thyself thyself,
Shall boast of thy worth, and be made to look,
Against thy beauty and thy worth,
Against thy goodness and thy goodness's worth.
Hearing this, thou shalt see my love grow
And in me grow the love of my heart.
  But, as thou art, I am not thy love,
  That I may not be loved by thee.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
With one swift hand she brings her prey,
And in another she lays her dead body.
But in the first place, being a husband,
He lays her body in a manor,
And then she, being a widow,
Sets her husband to his death,
And brings him to her, and lays her alive.
  Then, having laid her dead,
  She calls him by name,
  And she calls him by name,
  And she calls him by name,
  And he calls her by name.

