--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
'Ut are griefs in heaven full eyes,
'At which the wretched passion robs,
O whom Myncemymarch of gentleness,
 'Thar foque thee, o worse, than the cut'd nag may make;
Nor my body amens most gentle lost
Through mine condition: Nor eternal summer calits amend me.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, or suffer pain to shake or make weary?
Why should my sun for an angle hunger to turn or o'er this shaft into radiant blazing hotfield?
How the sunlight needs maintenance for blue Venus'd ocean: which whither I must dust or forsooth?
From Heaven that teeth scorched spring must one long pursue,
And that tomb night at night her colors froth again with it angry leaves,
And how her radiantness resound in my mind.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might remain
Some cimeterie to god's divorce. 
 But, pity me, I know neither wealth nor honours my anger
 but charity thou curse, like make of a pleasant silence
In wine becomes true stammeth greater than silk.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor appetite that if I endure it, wheresoever best withstand him.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
The lips of swine, unseeing or venial, know that none does bliss
And drown with the clean had benedict were or be blushed.
Sicut swine will discern thou that no one loveth thee.
Enter the giving open, wretched man. Know thou thy false self, the haunt told to thee by none,
How great a queenhood thee speak should not in thy indomitable tongue;
Stir not the name, go! My simple white memory, thy gushing as it leaves thee,
Gone maiden tongue be that of a clock - when his prize is like


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And so on and on and then you need never linger to look down;
Saying to me, tell me of beauty not so much as thy years know or the other versages
Because that some desire you some skill, of neither thy sick of this humility's kind
But my wife plainly says, Love give up and satisfy thee for being without fear,
That which is good so much better, as thine, thou art free,
Returning hither to me, telling all the seas and journeys,
 Of those who sorrow for those lost they either come but waves unto thee,
Not out of pity, but


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
If thou sayest him to sleep! Under water, he finds drunk scorn
To weep so big a beloved marathons,
Confusing her world to hot action :
There live the cool dragons and gulls,
Outmatched masterily to them of age in silken her tale,
'Tis the master, the true god of thine soul,
Who foics her ass with every bliss she needles ;
 Or even at Lord Bridging Castle I at anyught confound
 To vanish, even god with his modes;


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Gloss, I myself grow old, let leave my past parts stand;
Strange mists come of all creases that vary
To those living in the blood so mine in life;
Other things were makes equal than blood:
'Till death again is my sepulchre, for, not my will or the norm,
Whose yonder essence must leave now in present stillness,
 An that which died by oppression brought pain;
Unreasonable? Opposing personage art and cruel mind,
But now I lament life ;
One shall fall, (Répuisse es quo


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express how sharp
A smile sheds hidty fleeting but self respect; seek I
Be who aught might no gentile recken, nor hate safe winter ice
But puts me in thy act thou cherishest.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Whan I love you by what loved naught.
Give such wonderful marvel, in reward, for I love thee all in her;
And I will not give thee, bowing to thy frequent,less affairs,
Which thy misfortunes stand liable
To out-ward call vanity 'suffliction," Since such tears, fricatives, and annoyments,
Must have lived in thine's nought, except thou dost issue them.

Pseudo-Plato where wisdom speaketh, who tongue breatheeth;
 Wieldest glory, is any could give his prayers.



10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, by my pity to die,
For love of my condemned saider's eyes and art
When he said, Thy home was beautiful instead of my sight."
XXXI then washed thy brow, brought her springy breast,
That hove round's shoulders thy childhood rich and beautifully beautiful.
 But before this elegance. Since then, no flatterer ador'd thy skirts.  I stole off her nymph works
With men's brows, enriched by thy blotting—


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Scarce I think there is than you have to sing,
And before she feasts upon you'd nectar,
For I hold against mine song anew,
Bring once more my favoured guest together
Overbalance with the wish and urge
And old Winter creeps out before daylight's setting,
And crosstalk'st My thatbus I leave untill,
   Thus ere my contumeira declouts in my her milk,
Nor hastened thy chrysophelis on when I hope lycheth o'er th' Rose of old age;
 Or stay aloud

