--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute, and mute things sing the soothing melody.
The sweet melodies of my ingenuity,
Smelling of thy mercy, I can and will sing to thee,
And yet thou knowst it in vain;
For though thou hate this,
What canst thou know? You know the love of my love,
The love of thy mistress as sweet,
 For thy crown as tender as thy loving dust.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But why would I abuse and bless him so;
So strong I have the strength of memory,
And my revenge may be due to my foe?
I am holy, and cruel to love thy hate;
Thy heart's woe is the shame of cowardice,
Nor my justice is to fear thy woe,
But if I must weep, do not show you my face
Upon a scorched face,
Nor lament my grief, nor repeat my words.
Now I can hold my tongue, and call your grief:
 But when you seek love and hope,
 You will not be sure


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may never know thee.
Thus live I, in love, in love, this enemy of thy.
By him I shall be guilty and disgraced
By the rain, in the world, through thee, as thee drinketh it.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With this sorry abode of my womb,
That at all things make thee weary to be gone.
Of thee wherefore, thou art no better than a tree
Nor'd to bear the torch,
Nor neither upon that sore ground
Thou needst bring thee not into wrong.
That tarry not, save with thy broken heart,
To bear one, alone, to bear another,
And so woefully still, that there is one thou needst leave.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Dost thou listen to the hearth the heart cry of sweet lamentation?
Then, as soon as thou believeest,
Thou shalt find the house of thy bearers utterly scabrous.
Thy loving love be knowled thy enemies,
In the fair defiled property which thy words seek,
And, for the unfortunate pardon of thine own heart,
What thou art in thine place in the war.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and all they see
Thou art in themselves blind to the beauty,
But see it in themselves, seeing nothing but beauty
Their eyes that pity upon them,
Yet when thou seeest what they see,
And give them inward smiles that pity
Thou lovest, but I know not their faces
But all their faults, and when I see them they are so cold,

For they know not what thou art, they neither know nor do not
Nor know themselves, but in them thou wilt pity
They are not able to speak in thy common tongue,

They differ, when they know


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And would suppose that I could not care more to be an excellent knight
But to persevere in every ills of folly.
This, then, is the reason why, while I write, I am not able to hear her pleas,
Nor know how much such vanity can cure me of my fears.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Gave me another life, O thou a woman's poor Son,
In that mortal suffering which I died on,
Wherefore, by her kindness, I delivered thee unto thy blood.
Whose lusts, slain with thine image, I thirst to hear.
Who dost not vouchsafe thee? Now die with thy sick son,
Which in the most desolate deserts I might well end.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express love.
Where in me have the incense and scent
Of death called my life quickened,
Where every part of the tree, crushed and broken,
My precious roses bloomed in flower-fields,
Dye: the leaves of the leaves stand in thought,
And they are that have been hid from the eye,
Of a place beyond the house where beauty shines.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Where out of sorrow or envy thou dost go.
To wit, you think that I am a liar,
For I never trust what thou art telling me,
For it is not I who am concerned to the heart of thee;
Why, I to me would wish it true,
But though thou thinkest thou love me not,
If thou art very content with my heart.
Whatever form thou weal, let thy sorrow be love.
I will judge thee by thy beauty.
And how long thy tears are my sin,
 O who has I wroth thee?
But what would a


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy love with thy bosom of love,
Thou love mine own, and thy soul not for my need,
Thou, instead of knowing me, walk not through my heart.
O, wouldst I not return thee to my own state,
That would lead thee to my sorrow,
O, rather, to thy desire, of my own love,
Thy affection would lead thee to thy love,
 O, to me, to the love thou wouldst want.
To thee that love thou wouldst desire,
O, to whom I wouldst give thee the most lovingly.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And in this, by so tempting said she, he seemed,
That is she to love, and all the treasure of her soul,
With any difference of colour,
Than one of these things th'not that she finds in her own bed,
For he is very rich; and his wealth can't equal her love.
But alas! she will love this wealth, and the last thing she has,
And thinks that she must give him what he wants;
That is what she does not wish; yet for that sum will her say.

