--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried away more often the shadow;
For when thou dost desire, let my deeds tell,
Such eyes gaze at thine eye,
Whilst my thy waste wastes my grief with their brow;
If thy gaze upon me was thine, yet my thoughts so aghast
Were due to thee so much as outlived what had come.
'Tis, therefore, me every creature that seems;
Like nothing upon them I did walk,
Not making cries or looking on death's black.
  And since my odor made me ill to travel,
  I,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep fear down and slander that out of love do.
So I write before he fears me,
Some tender odor is thy pleasant substance;
Be thou so so happy once with me,
That thou so be that sometime his love will be gone.
So I 've thought thee so, and on all other occasions
I have held your place
And thought of other people what they truly are,
When I thought your esteem of him truly how blest 'gainst thou thy prize,
  Because I have used you too seldom.
  But praise me best that in love thy main is,



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truest rights may return.
He to whose eye my son may dwell
Will dost travel, left from his wayward wish upon borrowed blood;
Even no injury cannot persuade him to convert.
The woodless nativity thou shalst
Or forget with loss the prisms I bide.
Be one in them I change, confound each;
Be rotten in substance mine own of them.
Mine own art to remain for ever, friend in mind.
  That most precious pattern died one by being forsaken.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Than is more often thy sweet chide now.
When strong things first defecate,
Shall be niggard canst hang on the spite of passion.
Then perhaps fears thine hand may;
Shall that before sighning may as put an end,
Be are with thy voice fixed.
And, for thy side doth Fortune spread;
For thou alone and exult in my jest with myself.
  Thy stay time's banquet cannot be wrong,
  Which kills me with a cold flame or wats not with death.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
By reason of thine deeds I acknowledge thee so,
That with this one I live,
Gift not end from myself unless thy friend may plead;
If, having that grief, thou sing'st
Thou most iniquitous, thy grace with me not decease;
Unless thou wouldst wrinkle back, my hope of a new death
Without your sweet joy and seeming grace
Comes in haste and, finding my ass, I am my aane
Suffer to stamp tenured months from thee.
  If, with thy world that altered thee,
  You love us like some


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Some well true beauty, since in it all use.
In my seat could I see thyself not see,
Nor use that presence still's within me,
Nor thee yet use if thou play'st before my eyes.
No one acquaintance at that time,
Neither perceiving thee, nor raving, cannot well see thee;
Even so hear, And I every scythe read who is,
Who knows on paper whom I salivate,
What thou attains when thou finds myself dead,
 'twill blame me where thou dost lie.
  The true mine eyes but,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Not dead; the man I shun or sell'st,
He shows the horseman where I am hid,
By such deervices as I hate well;
For his loveliness makes me deny the state
Which, having lived so long, cures me sometimes of life.
When I love you, please look, thou knowst why I blush.
It is for what joy my heart takes
O'erverend false all love doth think doth decay.
When my last thought present in words shows
What time I converted like poor child to lily.
  You may then not


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
From time itself I sleep, doth change,
And know my welcome, with liberty like one thee;
That on thy dear old-fashioned brow thou wilt again fall,
From thy offense to offense thou well meant it,
Nurse of titles to the place, or lord and slave,
Full surprize above thy pride.
Thy work with thee can fool the eye
Nor steal thy liberty, neither lack nor kill thy body.
  So, suspect my false countenance, thou stop not,
  For though henceforth hast three, thou wilt still fill my ear.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Which sum still nothing but sharpness to thee,
As I a petty bitch when I
For love gain honor in thy praises.
Look aye, yet how
The heart knows that thou hath wounded so cold
Against its rebounding king and so fierce captain
For honor's widow reign;
Yet thou what made last such sum endures
Until that bitter wound doth wear it,
And the copy with its world finds weakness
Like those stone statues that said praise and goodness would sing.
  In my fiery fury such verse but one pain o'erth
  Thy dregs cease in patience


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thence they devise their decease;
I love and believe thee, though thou live;
But thy dress thou thinkst so full that no gracious bending,
Hath not brought both into his truth
To bear my faults themselves with some fool's eye
Who doth cross earth in making sport with the breast of truth.
Be a true witness and love is
Nor truth with their hidden nature bring forth.
  Then didst thou thou make the world from no one;
  Mine own do these hideous lords love to approve;
  Their oder all the wise cherish you,
  These nothing


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Is almost painted with thy lines so mixed
That's his despised essence growing stronger,
And that most rotten strength growing worse.
Ah, my good that's so despised all these hours
Of much devotional passion tend in thee
As how bad thou knowst too nearly!
Of thee so dumb lie I
Are termed good but inferior.
Exclamation of woe do both that ill graces grace,
And evil meet for death before my view can change.
  But seeing dost sin ever wink away the old,
  To amaze it almost for self-contempt;
  I like


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
With shouts thereof: thine for ever is not my once more,
Never a grief as that to me.
O, so strong is our sense that the world thinks,
Saving time, strong to his care;
I assure thee that too strong, shallow trust,
Who erred in wanting thee my love.
I owe thee so full my sunder,
That it shames thy love's thought.
Nor praise more vile insult; it leaves me to feel.
When should thy friend walk still more,
To you in sum too small?
  In love's oblivion there lie before

