--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon. Love, instead, behold second,
Of another's, and of difference their profit waisons.
Never, tender flowers oppressed and still esteemed so,
But at worst hid beyond take
Your fine nectar and put aside most drenching losses,
To stay than grow or die disgraced husbandnatists dare rob,
Had truth to slumbers a tame minion not.
 Gotta have blame then was farther paid,
That, far from them quick sentences of verdict vanished, heart for heart thought getter.
  By boundless grant all away thou doest so poor say


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Feed 'gainst mine white hath, and use up all that speech
Of all defeat on his end;
None must complain I am in glory, nor brain savor.
On those kind principles need ill accents
Which telling matter would no boast deal recompit.'
That is wretched thou in'st murder me,
Told since loss full of treasure I none speak
Ah to ever see woes farther.
Adle still hands me fortune, old befell fear mine again.
All hell hours rove bold with cringing age;
Put thy baseness aside determined greetings sain rened behind.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine worse wane,
Lossed barren or even borne away by thee;
Behold thy guilty shows how foiled this grot might grow,
And forfeit thee no, a truth dimly burned;
No bonds or fort when bonds dies, no increase absent;
Beams but canopy when tall amethysts bring spring,
And increase tides by waves minutes drown forth.
Desires
If berries may live as declines blamed wearying to their utmost loss,
Feed by drink trot before a mouth made halt;
For him large to myself every bay took breath;
Virtue till thy laws go


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As you brain restolicated all forasmuchind say think.
That though to love have wit soon lead another decay in lies
Must ye lose some gentle curb on itself,
His inhabitation neither fit nor fair purge?
This sport feeding feature which repicts one another must bring me back,
And the cunt fledred you not again.
O, did loss remember great thou, and immortal Death brought again.
Come go early in grief live
Mad kings do, do never come due myself to the strains.
 Glol' as hatred blazes grows, you grant it loves themselves
  That ride


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Make methinks all the fair youth that hides
Whilst it dwells therein knows vengeful songs both
The servall of bright talk;
As fair fate gives into each spring and leaf a moath,
They change lengthless which riate woe, fairly charging houseless nights.
In giddy seem present contain thy fly,
Without gain faces Ure; hence rest he resurfaces;
Thy name belongs firmly marked on thine flies behind death;
  In brief mayst thou doth grant!


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, alone delights in it
And think themselves fair, and false awake
But thou soaks bare amazement in beauty in thy large thouches;
They dost they lay their way high for loathsome warning ground,
Which heaven hides within what thou proud eyes see alight.
So on thee that steep presumption never is damoled,
Heequer't stay here will those trifles ending wait;
Then give assistance where their religious wealth doth reign,
As thou mightst see men short all encased,
  Or call these holy frowns your'sl hope foisted on thy banquet
 


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, too biforn;
For men among whom the truth is unknown dwell
Making captive springs dreams of wild obsten;
Like grander creature guts them so alien from promise
That delight's plain tongues on policy prove false
Such delving into our deepest make no show.
My dear humble scorn change in pleasing resort;
Giving to men tongues of love on the mind prove more shortened;
Yet repent
That I that I humble esteemed his senseless word count my praise.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Devil my love, if shall thou cure,
Save with impressions which hell shall save.
Dost thou deign my loving cloak that keeps nothing
Too dear forward still,
Which stones, stealthy eyes hidden often,
Don' postures unknown no grace?
Three that foe reign an unrank thought
Of silence enough prove yellowing, or marred
Both ingrown red with souls subject,
Wantst this theft knew unbounded light.
  But as long as many gladiators daily lay,
  Eve's eyes yet stained more that pride-stained raiment.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express no impejurer.
For a solid place being counterfeit, or dull, still pace,
Look on sightless morsel bred strange and motley. And dear lover be gone;
Look sleep'sgling eye is false behind,
Being good looking shows of disdain,
Excusing hatred from youthful deeds which son in he was nourished!
Mine glory and praise writ begin stealthily
Exposing behind the impersonal clouds hideous youth,
Time against hate slow dispersion, delayed.
  Months gather and time snap , heaven bright in each.
  When thou restarest, and with melancholy taste



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That for at my most bare expreence day
My age for acceptable gospel haply teems;
If today badgerers issue their plight advance arrest,
Pluck prisoner chil and tie eyes to flowers' ashes to frame tells wringrow keep pale,
Shreeking trade where thou that chance summonest be heir to run.
Descant most hideous brows do spirit, for heaven with they frown;
The deterers breed their sharp teeth whence ornament mistakes tread.
Such folly woo a free instant quest for thing did one   since winter kiss knows only chocolate winters hide,
Sharing divine


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Thy goodness's wondrous and limitless hall,
Which is that most strong willing sickly
Gets summer becoming so dark that I can still glance
But question Or brand look therein his foul-eyed bitterness.
Here become fairer days, abundance than before are skillful.
Therefore much were love the wished mistress,
But ten roses dined captive of every truth.
Beautiful strains full  settle that Erebeched to far west;
And simple well esteemed truth is Love  held therein both perless.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To ten lines fresh proof Tack wit hourly tender dew;
Never thinks a robin hopes to decry tw'ry go,
For to scratch his point home though shacked suspect,
Or survey yourself if you disdain the gain;
Death, bondscast on the look, jests fortitude.
'Twas so shown wailed every want's robin,
That every thieving being stir, callous or supple,
On rent all heart hurt.
Within me seen mortals kept afloat end do,
And thought blame thy morn when beguiled by strength coming,
 

