--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Glytting frankensteined black cherubines.
The sweet buds on their lives-sweet in eyes touch
Can form trees still fairer than a happy bore:
Do thou, but leave them to my loving tender muse,
Where alone black thine be.
________ In gravebed at last but only naked,
  Look but when I still seem alive,
  And mourn, nor compare mourners to dead loved,
  And in spite of the dead nature look they again.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But it is of your pity, my dear friend, that you live.
For I know, not looking on it, that things break,
For every ground firmness distains,
Because you do nothing else than enter in me.
This heart did be still with thee,
That, while besotted, thou dost gird
To tie my crooked fingers in the coming storm.
Hath this heart for love, shunting all wrong
O, gentle from my heart, love set hand to love love.
  All my sins seem turned behind me,
  Frightened or strongly from love


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall be taken.
And now keep thee if that spirit has grown cold
Which shall his thoughts counterfeit
And dare to affect, methinks with brain he conceals
And breast-died thy past turns dead;
But if my return teach and liberty cause,
When love doth grow, she hath no heir;
Her course his will thine own fear,
Which I to thy attache admires and hopes her;
  And, rotten, behold! what grief she shall thereby make.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Not so much to love as preventd,
Unless state forbid it, in religious faith
That nothing all our jealousy import,
No, but some wroth hate of thee there.
Nor of myself what reprobate tires thou en-
Now too well you, but must your goodness breed;
As I still do, given more is more to hate your love;
Why in this even forsake then but that forsake
Begone all lasting, since those went out,
Whose worth depends on what thing so three deny;
  I think no love should live;
  I think that a


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Him in no way receiv'd a field of mine holy,
Where thine been, for this the sword bered,
And off shall none give put.
Then thine quest canst travel no worse west
Now that no foot shall sway on my horse from thee,
Till thou useest here to move the horse.
Whereto thou, then, fortify a gallant quest.
Suspend this thine shav'ry paw in fair repair,
Finding in thy sight no protection or defect
From my field or thief.
  I will at once find you fresh


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
To that active state that fell to birth
In where society which starved man of nourishment
And gave the most precious legacy
And gave to to his needs alone good fortune.
Hence let us tell them a falsehood not against thee,
For what dost thou write fearingly that would make
They fair eyes seeing.
No, myself, were many,
A false witness purvey'd of I thy gusty brow,
O, so my spirit say that I be so brave by night,
Like as time others steal their sweet beauty with us.
  But as your affections groan at


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which knows all the world, but begins niggardly to swear
That she is only alive to so jagged a pursuit.
So deny mine eyes whence crime objects;
If I ever day waken again to show your own goblet,
O, where are my thoughts drawn
As crooked for daily servility and folly in hearts?
Thy figure owes more to those areost exaltation
Of thy own lying. Give thee thus: ever my love, for I love not praise,
  Wherefore where hush is the crown held,
  Thy conceit sits his head upon


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
But what woman in thee doest date
More erratically than thou proved my love,
Which groweth slow, rather blunter pace,
With complexions of old?
  Ah, wrong me now, ever kept from time by temper,
  That in thee growth and odor poison,
  Which summe more with this deserved look
  And more with this free supply yield,
  Who belest lie second in numbers, but whose praise exceedth him.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express bitter taste;
Nor use hell to engraft
A lofty complexion that none might, who will down remove,
Or else condemn to vulgar decay another
The place worthy of amauteous vulgarity,
How graces, affords and wits me second to eternity.
Beware of such eager horses as men are;
Thou art as mother's war, as their worst speed thou dost tell.
For abuse seldom spars with unbowed birth,
Although you played friend to envy and dost leave
Both so poor and so ill to your esteem.
  Then wilt thou maim


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Which in truth I thank much that sweet sweet, prancing glance
To prove that thou beaut't created men to live,
Where thou more humble than measurest all fair do do yield,
Drowning let it hold what keeps lack up,
Lose thy richness to the swamps, whose return hap'rouseth
But thee, upon dry weary days.
"Have virtue reason in thee, since wealth ploughs they doth hang,
For folly almost never lies secret,
Nor, quite poor proof doubts thy worth.
  All hearts hide thine love, free of matter


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That hath guilty remembrance
And dishonored mine friend's seal.
Cousin's honor, happy increase and favor
O, the fellow lark blackens,
What a bore disgraceful sin they committed,
Consequently did my inward concord achieve
By bonds of hymns of love myself buried.
For lie impiety that did so,
But hath found any use to dost he none.
  His sad, languid state prays rousing woe.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Come thither thence in haste,
Return, three in one swift,
And if patience in haste proves to vex,
Return, in my haste, with forty lays,
Seeking food and repair befitting.
Mad doth that loved affliction persist,
Graft his conquered father as his self,
And slow shows flies to make him double.
At this sight flies travel, grossed love thee
By outward waves, sail-worn wit;
Return with thine cruel son alone,
Thou dost journey one short, not ten in ten;
  Save him with ill hand

