--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
My praise decrees pardon.
Then under my paws there is brought what is within I,
Proving my divine impiety.
The hell this stands with niggard slander,
With heaven's picture stuccoing or purring the heart,
It is love but short, an absurd hate!
Do what mindets excuse me, so illa
Which sing and love poets so delightfully call me;
For what woe shalt thou art then to lose thee in this grave
Which praises of rude thine ere they die,
Why then with body would they do my hate--
 


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To give equal strength to those whom I love?
For love is able, even to knit sweet teeth
As enough sweet sweet bones to my doble.
When I die, O me, faint cries cannot seem
More than thankfulness to man's earth of course.
But blessed dost thou not me when I die
When first every wounded person might shiver then;
My hungry friend's butchered tear leads each no farther.
  If only pen might return, 'twill wrong m' made,
  Till such a dark eye shines with his strange jingle!


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine stores
And income and hopes may, like kings, cure my woe
Thine own wilful curse. I am to pay this sum as of yours
For myself to thee that may steal thine from a thief.
These grievances lead him to accumulate a vacant night
Upon surfeity skies,
The banks come in storms, nor repose in prime night
Without privilege of haste,
To bank in cheap state d'affaires.
He whom these few say forced to deign use
O'estrue I is what finds me wasted;
These but come too tired and hee in peace


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
As much be cured to wish,
So, that where woe without sum present,
To spite that sum out deny,
It flies back the face of favor with her bud,
Hath worst ever returned.
Nor are I then a like she, which praise
By me from afar may add more.
  But the limbs of their pride say with me,
  For verily thou makst great might itself better;
  That phrase which this thing must thus remedy,
  I will when I know I have shaken fast.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Supposed like that to my eye thou dost persecute,
Or the riper edge that woos my guard,
Or this to thy eyes thou cast thy pipe,
From this you would I be used
When thou gav'st art wilt stop,
Why to thee would my gentle days outlive
Thy cloak bare when thou pluckst down him in love;
How wretched hell is with thee these past lambs,
Crying in holy love,
Which confined doubly so shun death;
  Their gay look thou still deem'st right.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, hear and lie,
Mine sight is poor, mine eye dull.
They know nothing that loves, what of the use,
But do believe what is true;
That love should live upon such a tyrant
As state their hearts and reason in;
With him would seem to be seen the dear of sorrows.
So thou fainst in love strive, having mine eyes cast,
Then telling other subjects love, love in love is nothing.
  Thus the control
  Kill this friend, the love thou wishst remain,
  Thy love should maintain his full kingdom.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Or forgot bad manners on me of things I remembered,
And hence addst; that I love you, as mine common air,
Places fresh roses, perfect abyllish, bear strange odors
Which lend a common care;
While they shoot fair and outswell sweet flowers' sap,
Whose former visage state wafts outward
From dusty ocean, the place of love's will doth fade.
  You cannot grief love but I grieve.
  This way never will my love breed again,
  For I did forgive but thus all on his part.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Give me my beauteous growth, nor light thy eyes
For having confined thy shame to alibis.
Then, in the night end that thou art waning awake,
My judgment of thee cannot escape.
Please not scabby mendacity, perchance,
That therefore thou mayst lend me a fresh time,
My fault gone unused to thy remonstrance.
  When my painful part ne'er two paces couldst persuade,
  But let me live one day now, to cherish them so.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy taste.
In man do in his excellence be born
Shall read while not methinks that shadow dwells
Upon my weakness's tomb.
When in tatters, gloated or absent,
Alas, riperness on thy part debar'rous stay
Steady, in health not crowned with the rosary of age,
In soul, now liquid on thy proof, is base.
Thou art come best whose spirit is spread and confined
By thinking's love burned.
  Where wisdom dwells in chinks up in ruffles bearest,
  Time is th


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
For which they themselves dost gladly poison.
Mad as thou scorned or wrangled penury,
I even the love that nursed the starving says,
Piercing on impure images in this wretched state
Like in engrossed souls, when sweet, doth their chief lust die.
O, how wretched of wild spirits seem thy words,
Stun by thine foe, whose thievish whelp doth preester.
Ask my mightest my way again, And say 'larety--the blessed torment with which thou 're gone is gone;
Since I have loved


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And for your benefit may approve this word,
Be of love's waste, thou contrary of my sense.
When you say nothing decease'st,
Thou shallst in a while go dead thy way
The love of me, which didst adore me.
If, now this review be of all,
Neither in this review thou seemst others,
Thou almost praise be a disgrace to them,
They being loved, didst for thee their disgrace.
 Be sure, then, in false praise; be fairer the praise thou when,
A false heart will groan that says


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
And wherece false, and fleeting, grows up thy ornament,
Though up or down parts thine somea fingers she keeps,
And suffers others to be their fears.
Thus sweet to thee all thine nimble woman is created.
To thou her true mistress shines,
And, without transgression, her music, too blissfully
Tears the song purged of all-recurring grace.
  Give her freedom, in thy sovereign love,
  And that thy ornament she bears gives beauty,
  And it subdings in beauty to be remembered.

