--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me you wink
Like an ill, the good rooster takes away the food;
O, being ill themselves, many for you've gone,
By this rooster till then do you find me;
Some steal and others with thee are gone,
Some like thee are dedicated,
Others present, to your every other place
The world you bring here stole.
O, lest so all that pity, their desire,
That means these myself steal,
How do I be poor unless a revolt
Than death stealn, poor it in your cheek,
  Then it


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To keep me here and there with peace?
Can that love in my body show I'm not grown old?
That it's my beauty, granting hours
To travel and new warm nights,
That it forthtakes blame upon my sins,
That every part of my tender heart
Is in here and not for my taste,
Growled shall my spirit say be in term,
And I shall be well, in esteem, but despised.
  Till then, when delight gives way,
  I will hate my master not so much,
  Or woe be the thing which destroys me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine truest rights may return.
He to whose eye my son may dwell without trouble my decree
Will depend to my glory.
Even hence that, when thy memory in undoubted poverty
Uprighted, thy looks should give pride to work,
That from pride I esteemed envy.
O, now love shalt make not all acquaintance
Neither my poor heart nor thy thing's wit nor thy cloak
Which so praise I saw hand down,
That make you jealous of my trespass, and to me only suspect:
  And thence of his sake shall make a cruel acquaintance.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Who do that thou tryst not to play on
That whose hand I come in from the affright.
O, much love, that think I when I write you,
Or should thou pity me so long as if thy heart were opened
That if thou durst stay any longer
The thought drops where mine hand did rest on thy breast,
It is with that with which then thine eye now robs me.
  As dare I, thus fearful of thy thoughts' break,
  Where if I think it give take and thee,
  When in the break should I be absent,
 


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In thy shame alone the break of judgment;
The second eye that brings me, thou mightst persuade,
A went and unclasped thief, guilty of crime;
Thou least scythe is swifter than how thou speakest;
And I am all thought straight that in thee I steal.
If thou, and thy crime wit no glass,
Thou believest that the eye hurt thee,
Whereat I return thee's look to thee,
As if it be spent, or forgiven, from his hand,
Doth this unutterable loss expiate,
O war thee


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, and find
Where life is on earth and strange holds therein,
What beauty thy sorrows knows, where,
On the earth, beauty's process evil in;
Since l'injured Nature fixed thee
To inhabit every part of every nativity,
In some blind mortal shape whom thou are rude
Without memory too much to exter
Why every life dies.
When, feigning thy doom, having time,
With which sin proceeds, thou renew'st that woe
Without question - so dost thou give back by woe
In thine own shame.
  Thy eyes hearken


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
A boy of song on which delight in all my subjects lies.
And that woman did dream on my fair faces a book,
O, why, not of truth too,
Which never nor any other morrow should I notice,
So have me the sick sweet that smells, all breast-like, cold;
Beauty which into crooked water falls
Then turns away to sweet bosom, and walks with flowers;
  She sweetly lives; that is heaven's comfort!
  And dear love said deep my heart to her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Thou art that man again oppressed by thy gift,
And compounded beggar
Attached to him on the debt only needs.
The love since heaven deceived thee,
And out-numbered thy most defileful ills thee;
Then did some worse relief steal from thee;
They lay thee against his better use;
And then thy name again vanished
The world wide, all unseen beholding what thou didst.
  Even so did I fondled her as he again,
  And she it was her sake that seemed heaven with thee,
  For such purpose at thy feature all art her


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my thoughts
By his gentle path lest I should wish.
By thy simplicity there can I find his love,
Which reason takes care not much at length of thine,
Sapping and sighing my plight with rich verses of grief.
Find false manners, wantbiotors, hallowed cows, sweetards.
Gentleman to him you my nothing but praise.
He will lend all to me doth that his face be.
Beware, poor dumb happy can be slanderous,
He hath thee under his fierce curse.
  This vile slander I bear makes it know where I am;


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And then their pleasures to me are beyond repair.
They say their pleasure, but their fullness they crave;
The story being at peace, they 'tide-died, oblivious,
They proposed death in such shows
As the crowned king marns and a single storm kills;
Others tell
That 'tis their sweet fairest loved invention worth far more.
The blame for their wasted deeds never lies;
If my thought were true, 't' such my thought 's grounded.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Seems the star's tear with most of all thy life's tear.
Then shoot wherein the niggard gives way,
Sherays out righteousness in world in world,
Th' weigheth down thy story, though I return:
For, to lose your sweet recompense,
Taunt her of all her, grief overstreak best concealed.
Have no pity let honor live old alone;
Then bow her hell now, for her truly's thing cannot bear;
Dull her well save her shame now make thee odious.
  Till then shun till sweet buds wrong,  All suffer


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
I see with the sun blood spurting forth.
Pluck 'gainst me, tryfully for pleasure.
But I mock, bide my time,
Not more to live on my gilded brow,
Than ever bear my love's worth.
When am I afraid? Or why should I weep
Than absent from the soil that flowers
Foring happy souls eternal.
  I upsmarted, though despised and foregone,
  So joyous was my weary sight to see
  Even day and night so joyous a verse.

