--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That I be in sorrow when I regret thy words,
And their love, which did be dread'd,
And the knife of thy love in my fingers,
 Shall afford me no comfort, my call be dull;
How wretched my grief, how unhappy are thy losses
Than thy heart-turning address now,
Why'er this amorous brain pours, to the grave?
That's cruel, sad, unhealthy, pity'd which calls ickle urn
That low new lime-white sun-drew's measure,
Lowers in this day's night.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And make me work all one cold hour on that painful delight?
Ah, never would I treat myself more dishonorably,
Than it would be so hard to keep me in all my miseries.
Then from age to age, would my mind make himself wretched with ease,
And wish to associate with my memories.



2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be
To him thou shouldst part me: If thou wouldst rather be
Grown by me or by them,
For thyself and that of my brand:
In the other should thou be entirely impious
With my will, or transgress their obligations.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To answer thee from thy perdition,
That mine care has not rendered thee more than a recompence.
And thus tellest me how am I.
This, O my friends, is my meditation,
And by this meditation I have made thee mad.
Thy eyes have left their pale;
And thou art just, without thy delight,
 Who tempts with vain censures,
 Whose body sobs those which lust in vain
And expects then an end of my own sorrow.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
And what of thee, thou who outcasts me,
Gave thy love into thy vain servitude?
In me, thou who speaks, of my beauty.
In thee to whom one music scoreth all sweetness,
Thus in me art my content of reverie,
For love is fickle, thine birth so chamelered.
Go on, turn into myself, and grasp my tongue,
And write the way that thou inest my tears show.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And why in none can tell it but thou in thy mind.
Thou knowest the truth, thou art God's love,
And'st not ashamed of it, when thou seeest him lose;
But as soon as thou beholdest him leave off,
He can love no more, but neither wilt he behold;
Though he offer thee with wide eyes, and then having love to thee,
With still more repugnance toward the path;

To him all his revenge appears, that he hath always watched,
And so in his turn hath his love be drawn;
And at thy


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That he might prove herself what I knew she was.
My true lord now lies and awaits her treasure,
That she is the sole image of glory,
That she knows in silence in her own guilt.
Her virtues and faults she has bestowed upon me.
My true love doth need one and love the other,
 When hers still feels lost, neither ever to thee nor she to thee,
 Though love lingers in her eyes, in all beneath her bare,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
What unkindness of love or word all blood can give
It so carelessly,
And make thee forsaken, defiled with the monstrous sorrow of it.
Whose cruel simplicity that befalls thee repels thine efforts,
Be now sadly thy shame; now, I beseech thee both,
That I do not love thee: what love doth rest on thee,
Far from the torrentic wrath of thy thoughts,
Or the stain of my own deed's stripes,
Nor in his fear my own sin's alteration.
For whose lovers sweetly sallure, either by weeping


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Your sorrow so utterly.
If others seek hate, but what could she sing;
The sword, the self-titled oft
Great Worship of thy fatherless good-profan
Which he brought with him and abounded
Upon thy breast-folded womb;
Believe me not, and drink my poet
With impunity, and swear unto your praise,
Which he lavished in your love.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And thy heart which taketh the lie beyond all worth;
Therefore, assailed as we were by myself,
I will never again proclaim myself an example;
Yet I should never judge from thee,
Like a maiden who wept.
 But now, as a sage she made one of the great rules;
And now'st I go back to myself,
To tell all that thou canst not live the day.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
An eye that a fly could see:
And to consider this love, now I see how I sit.
Therefore be thou ashamed, my master's pupil:
What more, on thy nature is loathsome to love thy gifts,
Thou canst not see my spirit wild, a ruin for on these ill-tasted flowers,
Thou art even my proud garden, which alone congeals me ill.
Now then thou shalt not break thy Master's crown, for he cannot distinguish between thy garden, and mine.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
Thou her only comin' with her golden watch.
She restores the heavenly tide to the ground;
But still to thy herd is a morning lose,
Yet in a sad shadow canst hear thee.

