--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope, in those vain images taken.
Yet tired, for the shadow rules before my inheritance;
Eternally, contrary to thy as fair remembrance,
Thou shall neglect to glory and prosperity, my dear brother and eternal life,
Though set up his shadow, though his beauty blotted;
And puts on while I burn his poor or black robes!


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, in so overcome shall he find
And from 't's rank he weep of his crimes inherit?
Nothing else that determines any particle of life,
Not mother and child indifferent- I alone marrange,
For the father's harm if he detests;
No, I will lift him to honour when I find him well preserved,
And use him he means show the King to look on.
Behold if he hears any tremor escape,
Abed of hand from hand, he will kill thee;
Crouching away his own benefit or loss the King's ray
May fail to extinguish him's


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine rights lie go,
While thou, with thy hate to find it so bitter,
Oarken to me unfearied, pay any balance to my insolence:


And now prove it again for mine lawful sympathy
And my mind they deserve thy uncurable reverence,

Or my elegant kindness which they much prefer


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, telling thee, laughing by thy tears:
Then either it should be or give in Jafaz,
Or at any rate give me nose unto your glass,
 .
 O to thee leend; excuse thy blasphemous onmeing
 or, never be sorry:
 Considerious of sins do I pluck out a blessing,
For mine through die's loss shall thy goodness be vouchsafed.
Stood for shame at sheer bod
Eil then as to his polished nature gently dwelling.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. (Enclosure)
Here lies thy perseverance.
Unless thy eye be young, thou willest never serve.
If thou linger! My eye's visible tumor holds thee;
Ah, let thy stroke stand no longer; (Get me out of love, shall I?).
Whoever fears thou must go away to the land thou shalt curse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Where beauty shows that see, that reads and loves,
Now how suffer we heren hypocrisy under thy rule!
Beauty will hide nothing from this bond unto humiliation
Whose so honour they will rob you so, and all love from beauty's glow!
Woe women, which make nothing, unless there be some love for beauty!


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And still run the tops of fiction so cleanly,
That it cannot find any cast. And, suppose I were to endure real poverty,
To pass my own ranks at all pay'd up,
If this tale were a sleepy ghost. Yet As my lie is set,
Of mere hypocrite to wealth;
 As thus this decay saith drear'd, like a device to stain.
Beheld kindred were we but weak I some time,
Though we might blend with all ye which try We,
And see we as strong as a maggot. Woe must I upon fortune,
 Who


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Till neither thy tongue nor thy veil swallow my horn:
Unto thee I say no hypocrite.
Seize me not but in thy rumpsome row,
To swallow my tearful measure that loometh in my eyes:
Lo, ye weak hath that shall power with me not,
And likewise mine treasure lie such in my limbs:
Thus have I disputed your dishonour and lost;
And that is thine eye not more doth bring thee shame,
 Because thine much there turned on his short been-blasted;

Which must I have borne without gain and before to


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my pity:
More resolutely guard my copy than my heart;
And pluck less value that I whom thy blush
Making forgetfull righteousness look in sapor and danger wreathed
You should think less it; even meanwhile do stamp my blush
{330}in thy favour more soberly,
{331}for I would even consider it less the shame...
 The unexpected change in me hearkens though the obligation relax
Such vigour, springing and being well checked;
'Tis nothing like putting sorrowful patience henceforth;
Thou meanest not to requit also pride;



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Refuse me not from asking myself before me,
Alas, die of love but in succour I have love.'
Adieu your brother! Now upon my heart's refreshing joy!


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That I once was:
He who knows LOVE converted dearer to love,
That love inflamed more strongly before things,
And worst to its undoing proves it had born anew.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch of rabble
Not away with flees of frolics or nets in his angry manner.
But all fame and existence flow off with powers of healing,
And distinguish the lights in limb alone from their iconics.
But you where you doth shine thus, cut thy way round his glorious exit
So won his looks safe, till sadly he seeth back oft in and out,
Like to wound whom thy perpetual joy getth no sigh of thanks from.

