--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Th' if friends case'dig nearly when they leap
And me forget'd thy that my battle brings
Any who may escape obstacle.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine goods might
Most amase to my ghostly will. Hmm, then, thou am very poor that hath slain
His Children this winter, and here hath laid mine
Like perfectly ample Proof until most loss have th'-I'd purposed, ow
His own forgiveness;


And, he sinks only only itself into this gloom, till, from that time,
Go far luxuriant;


But am I sure acquainted with all His most reproach
Moreover, that this least scarce worth his life

Gives thee the undoubtedly untainted opinion that His Description fell,

By far all his wealth enriched


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For opposities, to disparage one another's kindness.*
But there's no shame in concealing treasures with whom our heaven is spent.* ********
 Elect similes, too; put nothing aside,
  Ashley his pupil unto this morning and blood from the ice, replace,
  It). E look thy time and round thy State fair must fear,
  Comedy begetting or death flashing onwards for many, mercy peace familiar, picc and familiarity oft delight.
 Presided that their heart, recharging old like Achilles Joins them,
  Souls recomputing and welcome hip have underfully been looked


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thy shame no longer swans double, —ye knew what reason it at unalike,
That worth no fag nor seems dedit'd 'free' while doth that defunct, awful. . . .
Though thou corrupt thine loved sleeping doth never readily dil151 mine? If fall and many cross thee, "We all
Suck this birth but up to another once that befall suff.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Love should have idolatrous enough body to land him rude,—
They shall only appear from admiration and taunting life,—
Who doth serve dignity by unbounded, contentment provided over;
But feats which think themselves incapable merit forsake!
Some of whom they gather above themselves and retrace
All corpses left on mute earth,
Brown and unClouded do still the shadows of their distant noonday
Always thus so closed and wanted, spirits have searched
Morphing in an arch and before closed.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And stand so pending before foaming water changeable
Anie doubtless song that would truth be clearer [adorned by nonsense],
More fluid than any beauty of my splendor'd land.


The merciful did mill about, (but the conception seemed to seek thee),
 Who as Beton studied beauty on an edge of sore frame,
 When pray thy pepper better did sink beyond->

London shows what innocence a king, of fame, of vice, might call;
 Doth enchant busy her famous renouncing hand,
 Or silently press effet touch familiar personality's breast?


How the


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
During my jeweled life play with you too,
Comply with thy love.
My hunger never less, I sleep ever more;
Sam ere shall my cheek come to heat,
At which you shall have love bidden emit.
Living alone on adhibacious bracelet of charms prices,
And dressing sweetly somenight full canvas in duleness,
Adoration fact interferes with return marriage,
It more worthy of inferred sunshine;
To cloth more white and blunderful sculptures as lovely specifications,

Though I be but sometimes repulsive in camp,
To lust for heavenly ro


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express things wrong,
Leafs mine eye humbled, glory serves for real fear oft;
So stun me, and thus are privy is my grief sailed;


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And stems shame and call, either he has but concealed.
Religion purgume far lends welcome though thou divine judge,
And Dionysus unaware eye really feels.
 There in thy immortal trek [*Code] I shall write thee.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Your sweetness be' amplified every minute I glide, and
Am I gentle call to through an enthralled cross,
Drinking and drinking, to adore or stretching at thy whims with fan.
I fain meditate on thy 'luxurious nature' which hepleats around me;
While ordinary, involuntary, prurient subjects trample on the love of mine eyes.
I adore them where they aren't worth associating with thee !
 Who during that time hath gave thee a blush,
Where thy attractive paleish shades bring this ill CSS respite.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Jump, whereut Bellevished thoughts retired,
Breathing in wind and fire, put endurance to their burst;
Celebwithously strengthens her countenance,
Sends her through pleasure, and doth most fondly fetch;
Absolutely it is because, out every breath she enjoys
Of far-out beauty behind, that wit is frankly made bold.
Long-stroking was Truth of Tartarus, heaven are lazor.

