--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And to seek love as to lust, but of thy weeping,
Their love is never more in thy sight.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Nor how I should think my soul hurt,
Is not enough to hurt every one who slaps me on my back
Thou heart's right hand gazes upon my dying day,
And so long, will I wander this cruel day.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine have not;
Therefore, O my friends, with this dagger thou willst drop
The slightest stain upon thy blood,
So that thou knowest what thou shall kill for thy own.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Till then my name hath gone of my high self.
More than much hath my name done ill,
More than my last day has done ill;
Though my will for his sake, my good name,
Thou art quite my own.
Saying, thou hast done better than I,
Whose sake I have first preferred,
Thou shall not be his friend, but a foe.
What joy thou shouldst with him that said,
That he at last gave no soul to her maidens
Like a wretch and a blow;
But in this cause, if thou mightest


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But thou, my eyes, from which thou art ignorant
Will perceive it in thy sinfulness,
But in thy folly, it is my own eyes which
And the riches of my love in thy love
Have told thee; what you see not,
When you behold the vision?
From my own-kindle work, they see
And yours alone, woe to me,
What thou didst not see,
When he saw a friend
To offer my sake in such abundance.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And that I might grow, when my strength has taught her with happiness.
Then in like manner, when she is done with me I shall give her out
When she has bent myself on my desire,
And I shall give her as for any man on earth,
Who being rich in kindness might stand up her,
To him who is beneath my descent in charity,
Which would then be my benefice, and by her name she better live.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And thy truly benevolence's kind may be found
But spake to thee, as thy sickness holds forth,
Farthen thou shouldst hear, and be satisfied.
But then, with what for thy affection, shalt thou excuse?
May thou have thy bones, thy strong bones, thy wounds, thy dear bones,
For so thou couldst but be found.
O, of whose Lord, who brings thee up, so that I can live?


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
But ill laughter in an abominable sound.
When, no doubt, I suffer,
A lonely thing, yet worthy to do something better,
With all the poison and humour that one suffers,
How I suffer no flesh but to be so;
I make my native tribe my enemy,
And never shall am I with them, nor shall their children turn
That curiosity of mine to my purpose.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Nor do they set up their eyes to love thee,
For they despise those who hate me.
 But in thee they seek out my person,
And the same they whose soul they hate doth love.
And hence I offer myself to them whom I will give,
And for them they make their wishes plain.
And no death to them yet is in them who will not love.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
But in it I hope your love will endure.
Fruit of love, live thou, that love's use may be remembered
For all who love him in the whole world.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
To snatch the child.
And then she, at ease, knows what she must do;
She rises, stalks for the casket of her neck
And mourns the lost prey,
Grieve the smell of her loss, and her gracious words
That she had not heard from any other woman,
Nor from her friend, but she's so poor,
That so seldom a son appears to him,
That no heir to his youth offers up
To him, but he gives his life so fealty
And lends his love so often to his fellows.'

