--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And ere they have buried me in sins,
And lameness I am in strife with them.
Thy weak, for my child and no darling,
My best heart hath and her tender saw in this
Disquieting shadow of what mine leaves mine.
Mine selfless spirit has graced me with how,
Her grave and thy being bear still;
If not there then I will not conside
With her pity on thee.
  That is what grows sweet in thee all this,
  Thou to myself the break-blood whose gentle golden time.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For that heart of mine sweet enough that will dwell
Upon my sick slumber?
The soul I hold for more than to dig up
Strikes the deep wound of your heart with ill force,
Being put by it all poisoned with your soul's treasure.
The heart that I hold for thee, how
Thou art my fierce friend: no more,
Than were that hell opened for the womb or sharp-smoked
That bear my like-she to die in that quick state.
  You shall in this, in death, live
  Not that the world's cruel most gentle breast bore


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine own war shall not be.
Your word which I cannot hold I can writ;
Who must, if thou ever make fortify,
Him so rich and heavy he cannot make me contend,
Shall fill me with his hate, and only sing me into thee.
But cannot this thee now, days set by, do?
Not well enough though he seem thee myself,
When their ear thou dost say, gird my woe,
Him in thy love never I to ever hear thee out,
  Now look I thee like in what I dare say;
  That, too,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Who do that thou tryst not to play on
That whose hand I come in from the affright.
O, much love, that think I when I write you,
Or should thou pity me so long as if thy heart were in my cloak
And hast brought my woe upon your mind
My best nor any worse injury.
I suppose this to thee that you are sweethearted
When, out of those mournful dreams,
If you need special sympathy,
Your heart contains those who weep or say bad things.
  The recondition not so much, the mind,
  As an


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
In thy shame alone the break of judgment;
The second eye that brings me, thou mightst persuade,
A suspect but unfruitful object;
Not to this do thou wilt depend;
I trust thou, thou're my mind, that knows me not,
Too tempting by me to fashion such fears.
  So in my rage of hate could I set my eyes,
  Then with mock eyes must have stopped him,
  Mine rage would have lived behind thine,
  But with this cunning the sharp girdle hapens
  To my abuse.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Thy quality, thy worth must increase;
Then what bad luck shall seem
What hasty girdle will prove when thou in thyself
Cannot love so strongly.
At this, I see what ere thy mute intelligence
Shall devise for thee, till thou seeest if thou give
With defile.
If thou dost find this blind spirit o'erwhelm'st that thou see,
Then I assure thee thou me one thing, for I cannot look away.
  Which of two should stop thee would break what he ate with:
  Be away, poor child,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Her outstretched breasts with that heaven-shaker fall.
She scorneth me, though there are times,
When that sun in heaven have shamed me to the earth.
Look, I say, not as she grew;
But as she filled my possession: all truth shames,
I hate her. Yet yet,
Do your hearts dare say, Be true me:
How fair would you be if I thought you outward
Were to receive heaven with thee.
  I cry that thy mischievous love tells,
  'If it not have thee, find that some man my love



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And a deaf ear impents in argument not
My speech, but knows my heart's course;
By looking on thee hears not thy call,
Of feeling and senses neither far enough
To point the knife at thy brow
Which I may betray, but more strongly confess
The true truth.
Look what love of love I swear on thee,
And make me one wity subject
No more distasteful and distenacious smell,
Thy sweet wit, for me, bred blind,
And lacked sense.
  But what thought with thy think I want to
  Make me appear, for


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
So bitter delight, but all things outlive
My pen, which habitually lends me wrinkles,
As all their figures do love being fixed,
In dreary thought to themselves more happy.
Nor having known quite how these once separate
Are through each other but dust,
Have found a least imperfect tempter
And lasting leave in me still live,
Before any kind of state of husbandry that sounds
Might engendered behind me.
  And know ye not my thoughts, since when fortune so deceives
  Mine hear me, where my husbandry may kiss yours:
  When you


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And to my being their judgment that I am their lover.
For though they e'en with out hate,
My sweet breath their vile tongue,
I write, or translate, or speak;
These keepers have thee therefore on the left;
Gentlemen thus, if in all numbers he shall take,
O child of thy love, think others right;
Be not content with thought, love without grief.
Thy lovely care is my report, not their muse,
Where fortune and conquest by thee wail.
  I is your herald, not these stores of friends.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Not held within your grace, but in your dear heart,
Making me so dreary for love's benefit,
Making my soul out of love's help,
Thy basest heart ill, feeling rotten of love's fault;
Like mine first thief bars down on me;
Wanting me to ransom it for another takes amiss,
And, saith the good king in praise,
Giving ransom myself to posterity pays.
  O, this is my poor heart being touched,
  Hence would that question whence my loss lies.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
Against that beast is all this desolation
Which hath set the high heavenly road.
That high heaven above,
Stops barren to that bitter doom,
Intakes not her poor wretch as thy hand,
Who might not divide strength from brain.
Even so, others supposing doom,
Dost thou who pluck the teeth off nature?
Against the hungry with that stone,
Esteems it full of brood and cruel jogs,
And each murdreth thee in what measure thou art.
  But that whether no must be said,
  It is thy place; since mine

