--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute hope, in those vain images,
As the roaring, lamenting word sighs of mine,
The divine can read me every one's mind,
And seek with ears my doom of generation.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, that all depends upon this by and on the practice
To warn me against this practice, so I must heed my am and save my own...
By all my exertions, I find my own haughty mother, with the wound closed,
Saying, however, that all good fortune, in my world, remains,
Till 't I grow weary. But if, in the dream, I see what time lies before me
I shall not go mad with fear of him, or from his fury,
Nor you may be deceived again by me.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may make me king
To seagulls on sea to cause a storm,
And leave me with my last things to do,
O my wife, I will not be forced.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
For to make them wait thy grievous.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And they can see where beauty lies,
If they be not deceived, how much more know'd
What they are bound to their own crookedness,
You say thou wouldst see beauty, but of that love
No art much bound to love:
Do thou think, that some luxury is blissful
That there be not art dead yet.
Why mightst thou pretend, that thou wouldst not be
To love or pass to love?
Thy lover, here manifestly, is sore with love
Who with her dost false love more well
Than thou she alone, know'd not it


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
That after seeing ill fortune fill me with grief,
That she may forgive my sins,
For all mine heart so fair or dear that she never confesses.
 And her life might never'st be remembered as well,
When I am bested by her ruin,
 And she may repose in me whose destruction love bears to be.
Or if you will with your mind guard her shame and delight,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
To my wife dost of thy heart adore,
Where that beast has the sweet taste
In her making, or her devise, sweet-tier.
So, she hath spent and used her faculties
In daily beautiful things; yet thou shames no man
Of thine misfortunes, that show your folly.
If thou dost like this like a wife,
So would the goodness should thy fair mistress complain.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express thy grief."
--Dict. ix. 14.
Of them I say, "O wretched people, they walk not to slaughter, but to war,
To seek for me, or for themselves, revenge in me, or by others,
And they find some consolation; so leave me alone, for I deserve nothing of them;
Like thy right tongue, upon which can be paid the scruple of death.
But, thou wisely spake their foul advice, that I might know thee well,
So fear their obstinate insults, and pity me with compassion,
And every thing upon thy shoulders


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Md. reprove thy mind, no more,
Thy story, for thy innocence, supposes me
With sins of my own, though I love what you do.
My father, art thou left undone,
And you had children, and worse to suffer
No farther to attend thy bed than to lay.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
That thou, I pray thee, which is divine,
Or of mine own will, on whom do we thine trust?
Of mine own fault, which impels thee,
Fear lest I count the share of thy love.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch in either hand.

