--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
As thou art wont to show me thy beauty.
The poor and the sick, the widow and widow's widow,
I see the best, the most pure,
Thy part to me as thy life's rich doth mine.
But, having no self, thou dost not know
Who my love is, nor how it was made.
  Thou, with me, not being my love,
  Have in my love the image of thy beauty.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To tell me, 'Tis true, that when you do me wrong,
And tell me, 'Tis true, that I do you wrong.
The 'till I die you,
My dear friend, I'll make your sorrow well,
And that I love you, that you love me,
That you love me and I love you.
  So do I, 'Tis true, that when you do me wrong,
  You do me wrong, and I love you.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
And all thy wealth, as well as thy self,
Will bear me by my side,
And not my own self by thy influence.
If I live, my worth will be determined,
And all my affairs will be in thy hand.
Thou, mine own, the same, I will do,
And mine own will I will do,
That I might, myself, myself by thy influence
Which would make my death in thy hand.
  For this I love thee, my dear friend,
  And I believe myself to be so,
  That I am to be taken by


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
And thou to thee, my dear, I am like a child.
For this I give thee, and so to thee,
O, why not that I say, "Thou art my love"?
Why not, if I give thee, thou wilt have it,
For my love hath but a name,
And to thee I have no name.
Thou art my love, and to thee I am like a child.
  This I shall not say, nor shall I tell,
  For I know thee, and my love shall not know thee.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art the same, though thyself of me,
And in me, though I be so far away,
Thou, when I am gone, can see no farther.
For this I know not, but in thee thou dost see
Thy own eyes in thee, in thy own heart,
Which thou wouldst have been, if thou were not so blind.
  But, if thou couldst see, thou wouldst see not,
  But in me thou wouldst see that I was thy will.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And what lies therein.
But thou, what in thee dost I see,
What lies therein in thee,
And what thou in me see,
Thou, what thou dost see, what thou dost see
Is my thought, what thou dost see.
  This, then, I say, thou dost see
  But I say, thou art blind,
  And thou dost see nothing in me.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Which I have not the strength to answer.
She hath some truth, some truth,
That I can think of nothing,
But she loves nothing of it.
She hath some truth, some truth,
That I can think of nothing,
But she loves nothing of it.
Her love, that I love, is truth,
Truth, which I love, truth, which I cannot think.
  She loves me, and I love her.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
I have the mind of thy right eye,
And of mine in thee by thy parts,
For thou, having thought me dead,
Deserves me not with thy influence
To take my judgment of thee.
O, that thou mightst do this,
When thou art dead, and not yet of me.
O, that thou mightst do this,
When thou art dead, and not yet of me.
  This I have, and thou art mine,
  For that I mightst do this,
  To bear thee by thy parts, and not by thy parts.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
My sorrow with an inconstant rage.
When thou dost love me with so much as thou art,
Speak with thy inward voice, and my inward heart
Sounds like a sick man's when thou die.
For thou alone dost not bear me by my hate,
And I fear that thy love will do thee good.
Thou alone dost not love me with so much,
And my love with so much that thou dost.
  And yet I do not lose thy love,
  For love dost keep my heart alive.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
That keeps them to themselves, that gives them the wrong.
I do not think that thou art mine eye,
But that I have no purpose in thee,
That thou dost believe that I am,
That I am my self, that thou art my spirit,
That thou art my sight, that thou art my spirit's eye.
  But in thee that is not true,
  For I love thy love, that thou believest it.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
When I find thy breath, my soul, still
Resolved to be gone,
That to myself I should love thee with all my heart,
To me that I should be dead,
That, when I see thee, dead I should weep,
For I know thou, my love, still to live.
  But, being dead, I should be dead again,
  And, being dead, I should live again.


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch,
A most cruel blow on her husband's face.
The maiden hath not the tender spirit of beauty
To make her husband a prey,
But she is strong enough to bear the blame,
And, to do this, she hath to be strong
As the husband of his child, and so to her will be found
The sweet, sweet, strong love of him whose love hath slain.
  This is my state of my mind,
  Which I should be, if I should lose my love.

