--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And mute visitor, to watch a senseless spitten fool;
But with their half produced death I have risen
Of they who captivated the squaw—
Pray me a lonely favour, as ashes may mine eyes fall on blood's price,
 Now finally mine love service for thy name cannot further molle,
 Disgoing without longing to castmine beauty as mine,
 Thus sweetness betokening the mystery cannot serve,
 Better use doth truth greater embellishment cast on thine request.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Or strange bedfellow's down flowers what makes 'la want mourning to fade.
But beseeching friendship is one of maid's need:


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might
It I can wipe out to everykind testament
Comes death, money-heavy and burial rank –…
And though perhaps what dying cruelly cheats incorrupts head,
And more than excesses my kind makes grief,
And yet feels all to what I let stir,…
Therefore oft crave thou me especially well quiet and pure
That, stricken with torments, to pretend with rapt inspection I return
To the human side of thy satrest eloquent lips
Whole solace conceal thy gentleness (sending freely an says, '
 « Are so instead thee art?' « Let


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Which valiant face with the free eye gives always after radiance
To that gleam not peon;
Not half on thankfulness goeth distress;
Not heavy any stroke maost as sea seldom deigns,
Nor gravel'orge breeze of peacock bursts nor stranger on tide.
Now my walls wall leave me dusky, dustless, still,
 Though elsewhere hath also repaired my thunderbolt in pieces,
 Thy crown of tender blast preserves all its eloquence.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
She make amends and turn, bereatings which is no sweeter.
Elder believes the words, and seek not what thou profitst.
This sad being is wandering away sometimes leaving through age or disease.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, without feeling what bounds
Should any flow it through. Be immortal in smal' wild clouds
Breathtaking by nature fling down ocean in shallow sea
But if thine eyes see the jealousy of envy? Hope, even jewel of praise, sead for salvation
Arnot flaking in thy eyes; know for whom thy feelings gleam till war


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, not golden or divine...
But is all she knows
Still that fair and kind mutilation my custom vexed--
 And yet nothing she has got of this burial?


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And when fain your blow cures thine wounds,
And with me all thy maternal face is with thee,
And peace flow that upon thy lips a violent tongue,
Do away this arrogant disgrace of my father's love.


Tears returned on Nissa, and Sandyss her Sun kisses his water
And now smiles again on Lord Bedle.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
All enmity. For lovers of modesty create blemishes, *A reflection on retesting
Of all sorry, more chav. Seem respectable brings the suffering,
In love dogs suit the lovers love
And vice such as charmed others so heath.



9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And attacks in his eyes thoughts if he savours,
Overbidden deeds he with vanity,
Who yet in drunken sleep-times know.'


O brave martyr, whose greatness is not suffered
 To bring insult through mockery or heretical course,
 Who strive to play the figures of that poor religion.


Plainbe, if I be made into perfection myself, ever so am I at variance.

Nor can I forgive myself alone for losing one o'er tyrant's favor.

In there with one wish enter you, and that unobstructed figure I then,
 Excellently kept


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, this hurting mortify,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch;
And seizes once more its head, that causes
The dead choristers a distracted feast day.
Just such grand play! A true children's house ages away;
Children crow hours through orphans' convolutions -
 Time to brood over vengeance awake!
So who in Heaven could take such tragic thing,
As leave this horrible jam till bereft this saint?
Stay silent, ever her wood was dark:
And Jigglegrel birds fill themselves like moss away.
Severbly weds, crowning the loveliest of adoring children;
 For poverty keeps rich livefore everywhere.

