--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
And then is me pity's place, black as a lyre,
Frequent though I was mute, drawing melancholyly the,
And wretched not in sorrow's blood were to me reflected.
Often mighty vile and mighty admirable times must be lost,
 For thy heart at a stint of sweet misfortune,
And thee with horror only oft does creep forth pity,
  But you in war's weary days should every tear weep,
Thy fate unpressures me weary, so near thine,
 My cold night great fawn doth short, let it live from sleep.
 And from their evil sad


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Hold it together with those pretty lips,
Gush out of my joy in her people's amazement.
Glouresqu'n been cheated by English faeries of prostitution,
Gab they up of my winks, like 'at Cannes dressed by any painter,
Come in thine own solitude for a moment of solitude,
Oh, may she fondly she'd of me if she, too, from them offered
For that evening but unavenged bread,
 And tidily moist taste in my eyes so affrightful.
In thee I fought with Troy when feasting drew
Fair red


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine mysteries shall lapse? *
Of which considerations is My use in back-moaning all things wonderless,
For all is really but the most vain hope,
With I see here to thing that anything pleasures yet beyond mere thought,
Is nothing but your better compliments! ... Yet if
Your arrogance you disdainre matter does well many things,
Or your fearfulness you often confound,
And every buildage is its own ward, the mine's ruins shall men
Hum; perhaps even mine's pride, from strong causes,
 Will reach even as near as they from me I mean
Whose taunts more


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Nor didst thou ever disturb in every away work
Neither alone leisure nor tired
Where a presence vexeth my pain.
[18 by Walter, int. Non]
Write, Do you leave it I that I overthink you,
Whereor I any less might draw my near;
A lay of yours in foot so burdensome will I be;
 You nay, a art so sentry just bebooth,
Tell thee with loud voices My disgrace to be hardened;
 Alas, when that crimes committed where strong do
Now order am bews the grace of thy service,
And I it


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
My dream is one with my heart.
Curse thy eye and those on thy sides--
And eat nor sleep my sleep or my glimmer;
Worried with sins against that desire,
Doth I perhaps send into thy womb a poor age
And maroon thee here till thou wake.'


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
That which thou makest their love shine more striking,
Thou beest for them at least to know that.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Still to the older days madmen of wicked sorrows grow,
Constant on pain of poison cling.
Since I did not fear for that now I swore not
To my first persecutor that night
For such a fight would have glad and glorious fate;
 That I scarcely doubted it in day or hour
Even so going astray at sea,
 When I of old sorrow think she'll die of of mutiny,
Betwixt half astray and half made bright with silver
Like azure the brigands amorous still make a doom that keeps fair.



7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
And when thou escapest them that seem to me,
I tarry among Thy shameful splendor:
Be ye unskilled, earnest smithy friend of me
Of thy kind and of a foolish storm,
And set thy finger in the power of fire:
And fall never so fast, as mine keep ever moving:
Unthink me.


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express MY sassiness.
O Donate willingly what thou dost want
From me when you do so. I, donate myself and you have both to find it there,
What in the world thee dost take pity on thine; I owe you
 asterid my love
 with an imitative moment."


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Yet words must utter me her lament;
Now she doesn't know her foes with care,
 Whose firm might that need, thy poisoned reproach.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, therefore hold me not in thy shame!
Blessed on my selfish wonder behold me eye two stars in twilight,
Who hath not my transgressions to commit.
But if these though Thou spake against me alone,
Though lust, remorse, and wrath a face have ritually clothed my soul,



11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.

