--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Gathering up the dead from thee with bitter tears.
As to the thought, "If this old, forsaken that me
Than thy misty muse, I love thee even less,"
Comes, as the proud rose cries in my mind,
Thine eyes, starved to death, hold the golden boot
Of thy love, by feeding their weary grief,
Against thee I feel so cold, so deep.
  In that heavy breath of thy woe,
  My mind shall tell lies and false gods say;
  I cannot lie nor sing nor bear anything but thee.


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But I must devise a more repulsive form;
Of all the love that comes from my lips,
It is love's most dear sovereign,
Like flowers to a rose;
And it loves me no less than all those which all others hate.
But my love's worth is not to be trifled;
I do not want to live sad;
Nor do I want to live so heartily as that for which the world looks,
Hath found I have it.
  I love my enemies no less, so that I will not more love
  Than none alive but him who died in his


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine will not be.
Then will I say how I may repay thee,
That thou mightst do me shame, that thou art mine,
O, what honor the heart is to me.
Thou art my dear son, but I can not compare
The least with thy imperfections,
That thou so, that thou seem so, hath no worth in thee.
Therefore, let my gift not stain me,
Nor do thou that my name shall cause me to be.
  And then I am not doth I cut off from thee,
  For thou knowst not my deserts, nor my dece


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose purpose is to love thy giver,
That would not leave me alone,
That is willing to make me lend thee new,
For in your love this dear woe shall
Be my pride, for love belongs to thee all.
O, take away thy love of me,
Thy sweet shame shall drown me out;
For you seem so fair that not my love,
Nor thy crime, nor thy thief,
Nor thy shame shall make my eyes weep.
  But if thou have been abused, if thou have dost love me,
  Give me that which lies in thee


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
How much farther should I dare to come,
Than by to that former extremity now bidden,
Without knowing where thou were,
With my then judgment, and not being present,
Than thou, knowing where thou were.
Then how far do I go,
Against thy rage, and against thy rage's fear?
Thy peace my heart shall lead,
But thy brain is settled in a melancholy state.
  For since thou wilt not be thought to be dead,
  Then it shall be, for my love, to live.


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And are of true acquaintance with the earth
And that to them thou art none other than my love.
But you cannot think what beauty looks like
Or for what thyself you compare,
But you see what you see not;
For this to thee thou must, though for nothing else canst thou,
When thee first lies dazed in a hideous brain,
Or in thee it beyou dost for decay.
  Yet thou art mine, though I do not know thee
  For this I myself am, though thou appear not to be.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And think my love a kind of friend,
That despite such a kind of the world, I should live.
But this is not false;
The truth I might live may be
And I would love thy sweet love,
Though all ages before the world doth publish it.
It is not true to say that it is my love,
That it is true that you seem to me
To say, "I live for love's sake."
  I live to the love that you so love me so love me.


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
How then can I be blamed if thou bear
The trespass that the thief commits against the
Seen in thy contentment?
I am nothing but doting, not self-refuting,
Respected of that which belongs to me.
What more I praise, then dearest and beloved friend,
Who is more dear than thou,
Who is so great and holy in me,
That, if thou shall not acknowledge me,
Doubt not that I am here and my self will
Be buried in thee.
  I have meant nothing by what thou dost;
  I stand for thee


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Why I should put thy true self in thy chide.
Be wise, gentle as thou art, even so,
Be true to yourself, do thy best, make my sayings
Fair, do thee thyself what thou willest,
Make me care, if I should lose thee,
Which dost thou do love to kill,
Thou mayst grow, thyself more wise.
  If thou shouldst blame, see why it is
  That I should have such a book that I could write
  Not up sorrow's own spite with words.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And the hearts of those whom they call cruel,
And eyes so that they find reason to gaze.
Even so, on my trust, when thou art gone,
I repent of my own sins, and weep of the strong,
And I alight on my seat of shame,
For thou holdest me prisoner;
I will not give thee the bright white to greet thy scorn.
  I will, when thy love is gone, do love thy self with my eyes;
  But thou, since my dear friend, I do not hate thee with mine eyes.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
O, yet to thee thou alone have the form
Of thy eternal self,
And all my sins are my pride,
Yet every part of thee my guilt
Was blamed on my virtue, by thee alone.
Thus are mine rights, as thee have my guilt,
And my sins my love.
  But how can I bring on thy love,
  Where, though thou think me unworthy,
  Shall that I be interred?
  That is the trouble of my desire,
  When in thee I have no love;
  Yet I that I can love myself,
  The soul


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
'O, by all that hath with her!
Have we any music to my lips,
Which I quite forget,
Nor can I hear you sigh, so heavy?
So much be your salutation,
That I feel so wracked with that melancholy,
That I thought I might die
As many minutes as if I were to go.
'Then, by a coldness I too find,
Sarcastic with doom, in tongues that be more than words.
  I do not hear you swear,
  All   but their sounds in me seem to be music,


